Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.  

Decline in demand for our aircraft products, cancellation of orders and delays in aircraft delivery schedules may continue to adversely affect our financial results.  

The current weak economic environment has resulted in significantly reduced demand for our aircraft and a tightening of credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, as well as a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. Weak economic conditions may continue to soften demand for new and used business jets and helicopters and may continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. Difficult conditions in the financial markets may continue to adversely impact our customers’ ability to fund or finance purchases of our aircraft. Weakness in the economy may continue to result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. We generally make sales of our commercial aircraft under purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may continue to respond to weak economic conditions by canceling orders and/or delaying delivery of orders. In addition, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, environmental-related restrictions and/or fees, that may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. Moreover, a prolonged downturn in our markets may impact our decision to invest in the development of new products or improvements to existing products, which could adversely impact our future competitiveness and profitability. Reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance, continued cancellations of orders and/or delivery delays could significantly reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flows.  

We may not be able to continue to execute the liquidation of our Finance segment’s non-captive commercial finance business at a favorable pace and level of recovery.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment, while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to accomplish the orderly liquidation of our portfolio on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will generate cash sufficient to service our Finance segment’s debt. We may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting the continued orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses. We may have greater difficulty in selling the remaining receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer, assets that have been acquired upon foreclosure of receivables and/or other non-operating assets at the pricing that we anticipate or in the time frame that we anticipate. We may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. We may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. We may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in increased credit losses. We expect that our portfolio quality will continue to deteriorate as we proceed through the liquidation and the mix of assets changes and that our cash conversion ratio on liquidation will decrease; this deterioration could be more severe and the cash conversion ratio lower than we anticipate, resulting in substantial credit losses. Significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation and/or substantial losses could result in the failure of our portfolio to generate the cash necessary to service our Finance segment’s indebtedness, resulting in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the business and results of operations of our Finance segment, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future.  

The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, or geographic or industry concentrations, as well as the ability of our customers to obtain alternative financing as our Finance segment exits certain lines of business. Financial market conditions over the previous 18 months have resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These writedowns, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional  

7   
capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased significantly and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. Declining collateral values could result in greater delinquencies and foreclosures as customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values. Our losses may increase if our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. In particular, declining collateral values in the portion of our captive finance portfolio secured by non-Textron manufactured aircraft may result in increased losses as we may have greater difficulty liquidating these assets. Further deterioration of our Finance segment’s ability to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. If these negative market conditions persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.  

If our Finance segment’s estimates or assumptions used in determining the fair value of certain of its assets and its allowance for losses on finance receivables prove to be incorrect, its cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects could be materially adversely affected.  

Our Finance segment uses estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of its assets, including finance receivables held-for-sale that do not have active, quoted market prices. Our Finance segment also uses estimates and assumptions in determining its allowance for losses on finance receivables and in determining the residual values of leased equipment and the value of repossessed assets and properties. These estimates and assumptions are inherently difficult to make, and our Finance segment’s actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. A material difference between our Finance segment’s estimates and assumptions and its actual experience may adversely affect our Finance segment’s cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  

Payments required under our support agreement with Textron Financial Corporation could restrict our use of capital.  

Under the terms of our support agreement with Textron Financial Corporation, during 2009, we made $270 million in cash payments to Textron Financial Corporation to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and the leverage ratio required by Textron Financial Corporation’s credit facility. These cash payments have been recorded as capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation. We will likely be required to make additional capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation in the future in order to maintain these ratios. While capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of Textron and Textron Financial Corporation, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. In addition, recently, from time to time, Textron Financial Corporation has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and it may require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. Textron Financial Corporation’s need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes.  

Failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings acceptable to investors may increase the cost of our funding and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including Textron Financial Corporation. Late in 2008 and during 2009, our long- and short-term credit ratings were subject to several downgrades resulting in the ratings disclosed on page 29 in the “Credit Ratings” section. Failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing, as well as our access to the capital markets.  

We may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.  

We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. This may include refinancing a portion of our credit facilities prior to April 2012 when the approximate $3.0 billion in aggregate borrowings thereunder becomes due. Although we currently believe we have access to the capital markets, due to the unstable economy and the volatile credit market environment, or other factors, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

Our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets.  

Our Finance segment’s ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and  

8   
profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. This ability and cost, in turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. If we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our Manufacturing group’s ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

The soundness of our suppliers, customers and business partners could affect our business and results of operations.  

All of our segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners, including automobile manufacturers and other industrial customers, customers of our Bell and Cessna products, home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers, many of which have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers, customers or business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers or suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  

We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government.  

During 2009, we derived approximately 31% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities. Our U.S. Government revenues have continued to grow both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain U.S. Government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a U.S. Government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. While the overall level of U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the U.S. Department of Defense’s military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow or not be reduced. Significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  

U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.  

The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.  

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. In addition, we are subject to audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency to assure our compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Also, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the U.S. federal government’s national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business.  

9   
Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business.  

Contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of these estimates, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations.  

Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.  

Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.  

To continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. These delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. We also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. Our failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our joint venture, teaming and other arrangements involve risks and uncertainties.  

We have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or related business partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement; the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts; and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements.  

We may make acquisitions and dispositions that increase the risks of our business.  

We may enter into acquisitions or dispositions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. Acquisitions or dispositions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. With respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses’ markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. With respect to dispositions, the decision to dispose of a business or asset may result in a writedown of the related assets if the fair market value of the assets, less costs of disposal, is less than the book value. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at  

10   
acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We also may underestimate the costs of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations. In addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions or dispositions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations.  

Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.  

We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. In addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services to third-party service providers. We depend on these vendors, subcontractors and service providers to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations.  

Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. The risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular product or service. In particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall Type Certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. If a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer’s production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor’s part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft.  

Such events may adversely affect our financial results of operations or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. Likewise, any disruption of our information technology systems or other outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial results.  

Our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions in production that are beyond our control.  

Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations.  

Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.  

Approximately 5,900 of our U.S. employees, or 24% of our total U.S. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,500 of our non-U.S. employees, or 37% of our total non-U.S. employees, are represented by organized councils. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

In addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations.  

Our international business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.  

Our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business, and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. Our international business is subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control, environmental, health and safety, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. These international risks may be especially significant with respect to sales of aerospace and defense products. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. Some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain advantages, including, for example, cost advantages, over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues.  

11   
We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. Under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S. Government could result in our being suspended or debarred from U.S. Government contracting for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period.  

If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of Textron Inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintaining a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our Finance segment) of 65%. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. In addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets may only be effected if certain provisions are complied with. Some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets or effect a consolidation or merger.  

Our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of over $100 million. Similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than Textron Financial Corporation or its subsidiaries, of over $100 million. Therefore, Cessna Finance Export Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under the Ex-Im Bank Facility entered into on July 14, 2009, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. As a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under the Ex-Im Bank Facility, if the outstanding balance thereunder exceeded $100 million, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes.  

In addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also would result in an event of default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance “significant subsidiaries” (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Commission’s rules) also would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes.  

Our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.  

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations.  

We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures.  

In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. In some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected.  

The levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses.  

In addition to reserves at our Finance segment, we establish reserves in our manufacturing segments to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions.  

12   
Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot or driver error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future.  

The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results.  

Our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where the contributions to those plans are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. If the actual investment return and rates prove materially different from our assumptions, this could adversely impact the amount of pension expense and require larger contributions to the plans. Also, changing pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. In addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. Continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  

We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.   

Item 2. Properties