Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Overview  

The global economic recession in 2009 significantly impacted many of our businesses as consumers and businesses reduced spending and investment. The lower demand resulting from this environment contributed to a decline in revenue of $3.5 billion to $10.5 billion and a decline in segment profit of $976 million to $475 million. These declines were largely due to lower volume in the Cessna and Industrial segments. The impact of lower volume was partially offset by improved cost performance as we aligned our workforce and production levels with demand through our restructuring program, employee furloughs and temporary plant shutdowns. Revenue and segment profit also were adversely impacted by lower earnings and resulting operating losses in the Finance segment largely due to an increase in portfolio losses, lower market interest rates and lower securitization income.  

Since our restructuring program was initiated at the end of 2008, we have improved our cost structure by reducing our workforce by approximately 10,400 employees, representing approximately 24% of our workforce, and by closing 23 leased and owned facilities and plants. This program has contributed to significant cost improvements in most of our businesses.  

During the year, we continued to execute our plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment, while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. We reduced our managed finance receivables by $3.8 billion in 2009 through discounted payoffs, portfolio sales and finance receivable amortization and had a cash conversion ratio of 94%. This reduction included approximately $450 million in finance receivables from our captive finance business. The Finance segment’s on-and off-balance sheet debt was reduced by an aggregate of $3.8 billion largely due to securitization payoffs and debt maturities. We expect the Finance segment to continue to contribute operating losses in 2010 as it liquidates the non-captive portfolio.  

Our defense businesses continue to perform well, reflecting strong program performance. At Textron Systems, revenues have been favorably impacted by higher volume largely due to higher Shadow Unmanned Aircraft System and Sensor Fused Weapon deliveries, partially offset by lower aircraft engine volume as aircraft manufacturers cut production levels in response to lower market demand. At Bell, higher military volumes from the V-22 and other programs have been partially offset by the impact of the 2008 Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter (ARH) program cancellation and lower commercial helicopter deliveries.  

Backlog for our aircraft and defense businesses at the end of 2009 totaled $13.5 billion, a 41% decline from the prior year, primarily due to a 66% decrease in backlog at Cessna. The decline in backlog at Cessna reflects the cancellation of numerous business jet orders largely due to the economic recession and includes a $2.1 billion impact from our decision to cancel the development of the Citation Columbus aircraft and a $1.3 billion impact due to cancellations by one customer. We expect ongoing volatility in our backlog at Cessna until economic conditions stabilize. Backlog increased in the Bell segment largely related to the multi-year contract for the V-22.  

During 2009, we took several actions to ensure adequate liquidity and capital resources in light of the turmoil in the capital markets as summarized below:  

   •   In February 2009, drew down on the balance of our $3.0 billion committed bank credit lines given the risks associated with the capital markets at the time.  

   •   Issued $600 million of Convertible Notes and $600 million of senior notes in May and September, respectively.  

   •   In May 2009, concurrent with the Convertible Note offering, offered and sold to the public 23,805,000 shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $238 million.  

   •   Extinguished $1.3 billion of our outstanding debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 2009 to 2013 through open market repurchases and tender offers, resulting in a net gain of $53 million.    

We believe that, with the continued successful execution of the exit plan for the non-captive business and the cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations, we will have sufficient cash to meet our future needs.  

Results of Operations  

In our discussion of comparative results for the Manufacturing group, changes in revenue and segment profit typically are expressed in terms of volume, pricing, foreign exchange and acquisitions. Additionally, changes in segment profit may be expressed in terms of mix, inflation and cost performance. Volume represents changes in the number of units delivered or services provided. Pricing represents changes in unit pricing. Foreign exchange is the change resulting from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars at exchange rates that are different from the prior period. Acquisitions refer to the results generated from businesses that were acquired within the previous 12 months. For segment profit,  

17   
mix represents a change due to the composition of products and/or services sold at different profit margins. Inflation represents higher material, wages, benefits or other costs. Cost performance reflects an increase or decrease in research and development, depreciation, selling and administrative costs, warranty, product liability, quality/scrap, labor efficiency, overhead, product line profitability, start-up, ramp-up and cost reduction initiatives, or other manufacturing inputs. For the U.S. Government business, performance generally refers to changes in estimated contract rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs to complete a contract that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating performance on the contract and are recognized by recording cumulative catch-up adjustments in the current period.  

Revenues  

Revenues decreased $3.5 billion, or 25%, to $10.5 billion in 2009, compared with 2008. This decrease is primarily due to the following factors:  

   •   Lower manufacturing volume of $3.3 billion, reflecting:    

   –   $2.4 billion decrease at Cessna, primarily related to fewer deliveries due to the economic recession;  

   –   $801 million decrease in the Industrial segment, principally due to recession-related lower demand; and a  

   –   $79 million decrease at Bell largely related to lower commercial helicopter volume as a result of the economic recession.    

   •   Lower Finance segment revenues of $362 million, reflecting an increase in portfolio losses, lower market interest rates and lower securitization income; and  

   •   Unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $51 million in the Industrial segment; partially offset by  

   •   Higher pricing of $155 million, with $94 million at Bell and $48 million at Cessna.    

Revenues increased $1.6 billion, or 13%, to $14.0 billion in 2008, compared with 2007. This increase is primarily due to the following factors in our manufacturing businesses, which were partially offset by lower revenues of $152 million in the commercial finance business:  

   •   Additional revenues from newly acquired businesses of $820 million, primarily the acquisition of AAI at Textron Systems;  

   •   Higher manufacturing volume of $498 million, reflecting:    

   –   $341 million in higher volume at Cessna, primarily related to an increase in business jet deliveries;  

   –   $134 million in higher volume at Bell, largely related to the V-22 and H-1 programs; and  

   –   $85 million in increased volume at Textron Systems from higher Armored Security Vehicle aftermarket, Lycoming and Intelligent Battlefield Systems products; partially offset by  

   –   $62 million decrease in the Industrial segment, principally due to lower demand at Kautex;    

   •   Higher pricing of $378 million, with $252 million at Cessna, $87 million at Bell and $34 million in the Industrial segment; and  

   •   Favorable foreign exchange impact of $95 million in the Industrial segment.    

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales as a percentage of Manufacturing revenues was 83.5%, 79.6% and 79.0% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to the impact of lower production levels and temporary plant shutdowns in the Cessna and Industrial segments resulting in increased conversion costs and idle capacity. The increase in 2008 is largely due to higher product development costs, primarily at Cessna related to the development of new Citation models and inventory writedowns taken at Cessna at the end of 2008, largely related to pre-owned aircraft.  

Selling and Administrative Expense  

Selling and administrative expense decreased $262 million to $1,344 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to workforce reductions and furlough programs resulting in lower compensation and related costs, lower sales commissions at Cessna, and a decline in professional service and travel costs due to cost reduction efforts. In 2008, selling and administrative expense increased $61 million to $1,606 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to an increase in commission expense from higher business jet sales and higher operating expenses resulting from the acquisition of AAI in 2007, partially offset by lower compensation expense largely caused by stock depreciation.  

Special Charges  

Special charges include restructuring charges of $237 million and $64 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2009, special charges also includes a goodwill impairment charge of $80 million in the Industrial segment, which is discussed on page 67 of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2008, we incurred other special charges of $462 million in the Finance segment in connection with our decision to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business. These charges include the initial mark-to-market adjustment of $293 million that was made when we classified certain finance receivables from held for investment to held for sale and a goodwill impairment charge of $169 million. There were no special charges in 2007.  

18   
Special charges by segment are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Restructuring Program  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated a restructuring program to reduce overhead costs and improve productivity across the company, which includes corporate and segment direct and indirect workforce reductions and streamlining of administrative overhead, and announced the exit of portions of our commercial finance business. This program was expanded in 2009 to include additional workforce reductions, primarily at Cessna, Corporate and Bell, the cancellation of the Citation Columbus development project, the streamlining and reorganization of senior management and the consolidation of certain operations at Cessna. By the end of 2010, we expect to have eliminated approximately 10,800 positions worldwide representing approximately 25% of our global workforce since the inception of the program. As of January 2, 2010, we have terminated approximately 10,400 employees and have exited 23 leased and owned facilities and plants under this program.  

We recorded net curtailment charges of $25 million for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans in the second quarter of 2009, as our analysis of the impact of workforce reductions on these plans indicated that curtailments had occurred and that the amounts could be reasonably estimated. The curtailment charge for the pension plan is primarily due to the recognition of prior service costs that previously were being amortized over a period of years.  

Asset impairment charges included a $43 million charge recorded in the second quarter of 2009 to write off assets related to the Citation Columbus development project. Due to the prevailing adverse market conditions and after analysis of the business jet market related to the product offering, Cessna formally canceled the Citation Columbus development project in the second quarter of 2009. Cessna began this project in early 2008 for the development of an all-new, wide-bodied, eight-passenger business jet designed for international travel that would extend Cessna’s product offering as its largest business jet to date. This development project had capitalized costs related to tooling and a partially constructed manufacturing facility, of which $43 million was considered not to be recoverable.  

19   
Since the inception of the restructuring program, we have incurred the following costs through January 2, 2010:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We estimate that we will incur approximately $30 million in additional pre-tax restructuring costs in 2010, most of which will result in future cash outlays. The additional costs are expected to primarily include relocation costs at Cessna as it consolidates certain operations, severance in the Cessna segment and $3 million in severance for the Finance segment. We expect that the program will be substantially completed in 2010; however, we expect to incur additional costs to exit the non-captive portion of our commercial finance business over the next two to three years, which are estimated to be within a range of $7 million to $17 million, primarily attributable to severance and retention benefits.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense includes interest for both the Finance and Manufacturing borrowing groups. Interest expense decreased $139 million to $309 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to reduced debt in the Finance segment as it liquidates its non-captive business. Interest expense, net for the Manufacturing group increased $18 million to $143 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to $38 million in interest on the Convertible Notes issued in the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by lower rates in 2009 due to our borrowings from our bank lines of credit. Interest expense for the Finance segment is included within segment profit.  

In 2008, interest expense decreased $59 million to $448 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to the Finance segment, reflecting lower interest rates, partially offset by higher average debt outstanding. Lower interest rates were primarily attributable to the decrease in market rate indices, partially offset by an increase in borrowing spreads. Interest expense, net for the Manufacturing group increased $38 million to $125 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to higher borrowing costs associated with our commercial paper borrowings in 2008.  

Income Taxes  

The following table reconciles the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

20   
In 2009, the effective tax rate was favorably impacted by the adoption for Canadian tax purposes, of the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for one of our Canadian subsidiaries, a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits due to the recognition of a capital gain in connection with the sale of the CESCOM assets and a reduction in a valuation allowance related to contingent payments on a prior year transaction, partially offset by a writeoff of non-tax deductible goodwill in the Industrial segment.  

In 2008, the effective tax rate was significantly impacted by the plan announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 to exit portions of the Finance segment’s business. This plan resulted in the impairment of all of the Finance segment’s goodwill, of which only a small portion was deductible for tax purposes. In addition, due to the change in the investment status of the Finance segment’s Canadian subsidiary, we incurred $31 million in additional tax expense.  

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes  

Discontinued Operations includes an $8 million gain on the sale of HR Textron in 2009 and a $111 million gain on the sale of the Fluid & Power business in 2008, along with income (loss) from operations of these discontinued businesses prior to each disposition.  

Segment Analysis  

We operate in, and report financial information for, the following five business segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. Segment profit is an important measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes. Segment profit for the manufacturing segments excludes interest expense, certain corporate expenses and special charges. The measurement for the Finance segment includes interest income and expense and excludes special charges.  

Cessna  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The deterioration in the global economy in 2009 significantly impacted the business jet market as evidenced by order cancellations and a decline in new aircraft orders. In response to these conditions, Cessna reduced its aircraft production schedule to align output with customer demand and reduced its headcount by approximately 47% in 2009. See the “Special Charges” section regarding this restructuring program, including cancellation of the Citation Columbus development program in the second quarter of 2009.  

Cessna Revenues  

Cessna’s revenues decreased $2.3 billion in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower volume in business jets and other aircraft, reflecting the impact of fewer deliveries due to the economic recession. We delivered 289, 467 and 387 Citation business jets in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cessna’s spare parts, product support and maintenance activities also experienced $152 million in lower volume largely due to a decline in aircraft utilization, primarily as a result of the economic recession, and CitationAir had lower volume of $79 million, primarily due to lower demand. We expect 2010 business jet volumes and margins will continue to be impacted by weakness in the general aviation industry.  

The $9.6 billion decrease in backlog reflects the cancellation of numerous business jets orders largely due to the economic recession, and included a $2.1 billion impact from our decision to cancel the development of the Citation Columbus aircraft and a $1.3 billion impact due to cancellations by one customer. We expect ongoing volatility in our backlog until economic conditions begin to recover.  

In 2008, Cessna’s revenues increased $662 million, compared with 2007, due to higher volume of $341 million, higher pricing of $252 million and a benefit from a newly acquired business of $69 million.  

Cessna Segment Profit  

Cessna’s segment profit decreased $707 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an $883 million impact from lower sales volume and $48 million due to idle capacity related to lower production levels and temporary plant shutdowns. These decreases were partially offset by $131 million of favorable cost performance and a $50 million gain in the first quarter of 2009 on the sale of assets related to CESCOM, which provided maintenance tracking services to Cessna’s customers.  

21   
Cessna’s favorable cost performance included $116 million in lower engineering, selling and administrative expense largely due to the workforce reductions in 2009 and $82 million in forfeiture income from order cancellations, partially offset by higher warranty expense of $35 million, a $16 million increase in writedowns of pre-owned aircraft inventory, reflecting lower fair market values due to an excess supply in the market, and unfavorable performance at CitationAir of $10 million.  

In 2008, Cessna’s segment profit increased $40 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to the impact of higher volume of $110 million, pricing in excess of inflation of $82 million and favorable warranty performance of $14 million, partially offset by increased engineering and product development expense of $45 million, which included costs related to the development of new Citation models, CJ4 and Columbus, inventory writedowns of $51 million, largely related to used aircraft, and increased overhead costs of $19 million.  

Bell  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Bell Revenues  

Bell’s revenues increased $15 million in 2009, compared with 2008, due to higher pricing of $94 million, primarily related to certain commercial helicopters, partially offset by lower volume of $79 million. Our volume decreased $97 million for commercial helicopters and $30 million for spares and support services largely due to a decline in demand, along with a $76 million decrease related to the canceled ARH program. These decreases were partially offset by increased volume in other programs with the U.S. Government, including an $80 million increase for the V-22 as we delivered more aircraft under the multi-year program.  

Backlog at Bell increased $711 million in 2009, primarily due to funding for the V-22 program, partially offset by a decline in commercial aircraft orders largely due to the economic recession.  

In 2008, Bell’s revenues increased $246 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to higher volume of $134 million, higher pricing of $87 million and revenues from newly acquired businesses of $26 million. The increase in volume related primarily to higher V-22 volume of $125 million (largely due to delivery of 18 aircraft in 2008, compared with 14 in 2007), higher H-1 volume of $47 million (principally due to delivery of 12 aircraft in 2008, compared with 10 in 2007), and an increase in spares and service sales volume of $28 million. These volume increases were partially offset by lower commercial helicopter volume of $54 million and lower ARH program revenues of $19 million as a result of the program’s termination in October 2008.  

Bell Segment Profit  

Bell’s segment profit increased $26 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher pricing in excess of inflation of $47 million and improved cost performance of $19 million, partially offset by a change in product mix of $22 million, primarily due to commercial helicopters and lower volume of $18 million. The improved cost performance primarily reflects:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

22   
In 2008, Bell’s segment profit increased $134 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to favorable cost performance of $78 million, higher pricing in excess of inflation of $32 million and $21 million in increased royalty revenues, primarily related to the Model A139. Cost performance included:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

ARH Program Termination  

On October 16, 2008, we received notification from the U.S. Department of Defense that it would not certify the continuation of the ARH program to Congress under the Nunn-McCurdy Act, resulting in the termination of the program for the convenience of the government. The ARH program included a development phase, covered by the System Development and Demonstration (SDD) contract, and a production phase. We submitted our claim for the termination costs for the SDD contract in October 2009 and believe that these costs are fully recoverable from the U.S. Government.  

Prior to termination of the program, we obtained inventory and incurred vendor obligations for long-lead time materials related to the anticipated LRIP contracts to maintain the program schedule based on our belief that the LRIP contracts would be awarded. We have since terminated our vendor contracts and are negotiating to settle our termination obligations. In October 2009, we filed a claim with the U.S. Government to request reimbursement of costs expended in support of the LRIP program. On December 17, 2009, we received a decision from the Contracting Officer of the Department of the Army that denied this claim in its entirety. We plan to appeal this decision in the first quarter of 2010. At January 2, 2010, our reserves related to this program totaled $50 million, which we believe are adequate to cover our exposure.  

Textron Systems  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Textron Systems Revenues  

Revenues at Textron Systems increased $19 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher defense volumes, including $83 million for Shadow Unmanned Aircraft Systems, $45 million for Sensor Fused Weapons and $34 million for Armored Security Vehicles. These increases were partially offset by lower aircraft engine volume of $73 million largely due to a decline in aircraft production as aircraft manufacturers cut production levels in response to lower demand, lower Armored Security Vehicle aftermarket volume of $45 million and a $33 million impact largely due to the completion of programs related to laser and missile technology development.  

Backlog at Textron Systems decreased $526 million in 2009, primarily due to deliveries on existing government contracts for Shadow Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Armored Security Vehicles.  

23   
In 2008, Textron Systems revenues increased $766 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to the acquisition of AAI in 2007, which contributed $701 million to revenues in 2008, and higher volume of $85 million, partially offset by the nonrecurrence of a $28 million cost reimbursement in 2007 related to losses incurred during Hurricane Katrina. The volume increase is primarily due to $69 million in higher volume in our Armored Security Vehicle aftermarket products, $48 million in higher volume for Intelligent Battlefield System products and $22 million in higher volume at Lycoming, partially offset by $32 million in lower Sensor Fused Weapon volume.  

Textron Systems Segment Profit  

Segment profit at Textron Systems decreased $11 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the impact of lower aircraft engine volume of $38 million, partially offset by a $29 million impact from higher defense volumes.  

In 2008, Textron Systems segment profit increased $77 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to the acquisition of AAI, which contributed $62 million in 2008, and favorable cost performance of $12 million. The favorable cost performance included $39 million related to the Armored Security Vehicle program, partially offset by the 2007 reimbursement of $28 million for the impact of losses incurred during Hurricane Katrina. The Armored Security Vehicle program cost performance is primarily due to improved labor efficiencies and lower material costs.  

Industrial  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Industrial Revenues  

Revenues in the Industrial segment decreased $840 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to $801 million in lower volume, reflecting lower demand due to the economic recession, and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $51 million, largely due to fluctuations of the euro, partially offset by $8 million in higher pricing.  

In 2008, Industrial segment revenues increased $93 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange impact of $95 million, higher pricing of $34 million and the favorable impact of an acquisition of $24 million, partially offset by lower volume of $62 million. Volume declined in the Kautex, Greenlee and Jacobsen businesses as demand softened, with the largest decline at Kautex as the slowing economy had a significant impact on automotive sales in the second half of 2008, resulting in numerous factory shutdowns at automotive original equipment manufacturers around the world. At E-Z-GO, volume increased $41 million, largely due to increased fleet car sales related to the successful introduction of the RXV model.  

Industrial Segment Profit  

Industrial segment profit decreased $40 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the $265 million impact from lower volume, partially offset by improved cost performance of $211 million and lower inflation of $21 million. Cost performance has improved largely due to significant efforts made to reduce costs through workforce reductions, employee furloughs, temporary plant shutdowns and lower selling and administrative costs.  

In 2008, Industrial segment profit decreased $106 million, compared with 2007, mainly due to inflation in excess of pricing of $61 million and the impact of lower volume and mix of $54 million, partially offset by improved cost performance of $13 million.  

Finance  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

24   
During 2009, we proceeded with our plan to exit the non-captive commercial finance business in our Finance segment. We made the decision to exit this business in the fourth quarter of 2008 in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of disruption and instability in the capital markets. The plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected, depending on market conditions, to be substantially complete over the next two to three years. The Finance segment also announced a restructuring program in the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily related to headcount reductions and asset impairments resulting from the exit plan. See “Special Charges” section on pages 18 to 20 regarding charges taken as a result of the exit plan, which are not reflected in segment profit.  

Finance Revenues  

Finance segment revenues decreased $362 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the following:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Portfolio losses recognized in 2009 include discounts taken on the sale or early termination of finance assets, including $60 million in discounts associated with the liquidation of distribution finance and golf mortgage finance receivables, $53 million in impairment charges related to automobile manufacturing equipment and investments in real estate associated with matured leveraged leases and $25 million in higher impairment charges associated with repossessed aircraft.  

In 2008, revenues in the Finance segment decreased $152 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to the following:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Finance Segment Profit (Loss)  

The Finance segment loss increased $244 million in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to a $157 million impact from higher portfolio losses, $70 million in lower securitization gains, net of impairments, $37 million in higher suspended earnings on nonaccrual finance receivables and a $33 million increase in provision for loan losses, partially offset by $55 million in gains on debt extinguishment.  

In 2008, segment profit in the Finance segment decreased $272 million, compared with 2007, primarily due to a $201 million increase in the provision for loan losses, a $51 million impact of higher borrowing costs, relative to market rates, $20 million in lower securitization gains, net of impairments, a $16 million lower gain on the sale of a leveraged lease investment, partially offset by a $24 million benefit from variable-rate receivable interest rate floors.  

We increased the allowance for loan losses significantly in 2009 and 2008 in response to the economic recession, declining collateral values and the lack of liquidity available to our borrowers and their customers. We also increased our estimate of credit losses as a result of our decision to exit portions of the finance business in the fourth quarter of 2008, which we believe will negatively impact credit losses over the duration of our portfolio. In 2009, the increase was primarily due to an increase in both the rate and severity of defaults resulting from the economic recession and due to declining aircraft values. The increase was partially offset by a $73 million decrease in the provision for the distribution finance  

25   
portfolio largely due to the liquidation of 68% of its managed finance receivables in 2009. In 2008, the increase in provision for loan losses was primarily a result of an $81 million increase in defaults in the marine and recreational vehicles distribution finance portfolios, a $21 million increase for the resort finance portfolio, a $19 million reserve established for one account in the golf mortgage finance portfolio and a $16 million reserve for one account in the asset-based lending portfolio.  

Borrowing costs increased relative to the target Federal Funds rate as credit market volatility significantly impacted the historical relationships between market indices. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in the spread between the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and the target Federal Funds rate and from increased borrowing spreads on issuances of commercial paper in comparison with 2007. These increases were partially offset by increased receivable pricing as a result of variable-rate receivables with interest rate floors.  

Finance Portfolio Quality  

The following table reflects information about the Finance segment’s credit performance related to finance receivables held for investment. Finance receivables held for sale are reflected at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result, finance receivables held for sale are not included in the credit performance statistics below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our nonaccrual finance receivables include impaired finance receivables, as well as accounts in homogeneous loan portfolios that are not considered to be impaired but are contractually delinquent by more than three months. We believe that the percentage of nonaccrual finance receivables generally will remain high as we execute our liquidation plan under the current economic conditions. The liquidation plan is also likely to result in a slower pace of liquidations for nonaccrual finance receivables.  

The ratio of allowance for losses to nonaccrual finance receivables held for investment decreased primarily as a result of certain nonaccrual timeshare and aviation accounts for which specific reserves were either not established due to sufficient collateral values and other considerations, or were established at a percentage of the outstanding balance based on the expectation of partial recovery. This reflects our best estimate of loss based on a detailed review of our workout strategy and estimates of collateral value.  

The increase in operating assets received in satisfaction of troubled finance receivables primarily reflects an increase in the number of golf courses for which ownership was transferred to us from the borrower in 2009. We intend to operate and improve the performance of these properties prior to their eventual disposition.  

26   
A summary of these finance receivables and the related allowance for losses by collateral type is as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Finance receivables collateralized primarily by timeshare notes receivable also maybe collateralized by certain real estate and other assets of our borrowers.   

The increase in nonaccrual finance receivables primarily is attributable to the lack of liquidity available to borrowers in the timeshare portfolio, weaker general economic conditions and depressed aircraft values. The increase in timeshare notes receivable includes one $203 million account, of which $120 million is collateralized by notes receivable and $83 million is collateralized by several resort properties, which are included in the resort construction/inventory line above.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups. The Manufacturing group consists of Textron Inc. consolidated with its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments. The Finance group, which is also the Finance segment, consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC), its subsidiaries and the securitization trusts consolidated into it, along with two other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible goods and services, while our Finance group provides financial services. Due to the fundamental differences between each borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group within the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Key information that is utilized in assessing our liquidity is summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Free cash flow represents a non-GAAP measure. See page 29 for a reconciliation to GAAP.   

27   
We believe that with our existing cash balances, coupled with the continued successful execution of the exit plan for the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business, and cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations, we will have sufficient cash to meet our future needs.  

During 2009, we proceeded with our plan to exit the non-captive commercial finance business in our Finance segment. We made the decision to exit this business in the fourth quarter of 2008 in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of disruption and instability in the capital markets. The plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected, depending on market conditions, to be substantially complete over the next two to three years. We reduced our managed finance receivables by $3.8 billion in 2009 through discounted payoffs, portfolio sales and finance receivable amortization, which included approximately $450 million in finance receivables from our captive finance business. Managed finance receivables include owned finance receivables that are recorded on our balance sheets and finance receivables sold in securitizations where we have retained credit risk to the extent of our subordinated interest, which may or may not be recorded on our balance sheets. The reduction in managed finance receivables was primarily driven by the accelerated pace of liquidations in the distribution finance product line. Distribution finance receivables typically have short duration associated with the sales pace of equipment dealer inventory and this natural liquidation pattern was accelerated by asset sales, discounted payoff programs and the transfer of borrowers with revolving credit lines to new lenders.  

We measure the progress of the exit plan, in part, based on the percentage of managed finance receivable and other finance asset reductions converted to cash. In 2009, we had a cash conversion ratio of 94%. We expect the cash conversion ratio to decline over the duration of our exit plan due to the change in mix from shorter term assets in the distribution finance and asset-based lending product lines to longer term assets in our timeshare, golf mortgage and structured finance product lines and the existence of a higher concentration of nonaccrual finance receivables. At the end of 2009, the exit plan applied to the remaining $4.1 billion of the Finance segment’s non-captive managed finance receivables portfolio. In 2010, we expect a total reduction in managed finance receivables of approximately $1.6 billion, net of originations, which includes non-captive finance receivables, as well as captive finance receivables. In connection with the liquidation of our managed finance receivables, we have reduced our Finance group’s on- and off-balance sheet debt portfolio by an aggregate of $3.8 billion largely due to the payoff of the distribution finance and golf securitizations and debt maturities.  

In February 2009, due to the unavailability of term debt and difficulty in accessing sufficient commercial paper on a daily basis, we drew the available balance from our aggregate $3.0 billion in committed bank lines of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit facilities are due in April 2012. A portion of the proceeds was used to repay our outstanding commercial paper. These facilities historically have been in support of commercial paper and letters of credit issuances only, and, at the end of 2008, there were no borrowings outstanding related to the Manufacturing group’s $1.25 billion facility or the Finance group’s $1.75 billion facility.  

During 2009, the capital markets improved, and we were able to successfully access these markets to strengthen our current and future liquidity profile. We maintain an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of public debt and other securities. On May 5, 2009, we issued $600 million of 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes (Convertible Notes) under our registration statement. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for more information on these Convertible Notes. Concurrently with the offering and sale of the Convertible Notes, we also offered and sold to the public under our registration statement 23,805,000 shares of our common stock for net proceeds of approximately $238 million. To further lengthen the maturity profile of our indebtedness, on September 14, 2009, we issued $600 million of senior notes under our registration statement, comprised of $350 million of 6.20% notes due 2015 and $250 million of 7.25% notes due 2019.  

Both borrowing groups extinguished through open market repurchases an aggregate of $745 million in outstanding debt securities prior to maturity during 2009, resulting in gains of $54 million. Also in 2009, both borrowing groups completed separate cash tender offers for up to a $650 million aggregate principal amount of five separate series of outstanding debt securities with maturity dates ranging from November 2009 to June 2012. In completing these tender offers, we extinguished an aggregate of $587 million of outstanding debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 2009 to 2012 and recognized a loss of $1 million in 2009.  

We also have pursued new funding sources and transfers of existing funding obligations to new financing providers. In July 2009, we entered into a credit agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States that established a $500 million credit facility to provide funding to finance purchases of Cessna and Bell aircraft by non-U.S. customers who take delivery of new aircraft by December 2010. During the second quarter, we transferred the rights to financing programs with two large manufacturers of lawn and garden products in the distribution finance business, which will reduce future originations. Similarly, in early April, we entered into a three-year agreement with a financial service company that now provides financing to third parties for a portion of our sales of E-Z-GO golf cars.  

28   
Credit Ratings  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate both borrowing groups, and their ratings of our debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and factors outside our control such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. At the beginning of 2009, our credit ratings were downgraded, and the rating agencies cited concerns about Textron Financial Corporation, including execution risks associated with our plan to exit portions of our commercial finance business and the need for Textron Inc. to make capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation, as well as lower expected earnings, the increase in outstanding debt resulting from the borrowing under our bank lines of credit, weak economic conditions and liquidity and funding constraints.  

On February 2, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its ratings of both borrowing groups and changed its rating outlook to stable from negative, reflecting improved liquidity at Textron Inc. and better than expected progress in the ongoing liquidation of TFC’s non-captive assets. The credit ratings and outlooks of the debt-rating agencies at the date of this filing were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our current credit ratings may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain other financing and access the capital markets.  

Manufacturing Group Cash Flows  

Free cash flow is a measure generally used by investors, analysts and management to gauge a company’s ability to generate cash from operations in excess of that necessary to be reinvested to sustain and grow the business. Our definition of Manufacturing free cash flow uses net cash from operating activities of continuing operations and subtracts dividends received from the Finance group and capital expenditures, then adds back capital contributions provided under a Support Agreement with TFC, as discussed below, plus proceeds from the sale of plant, property and equipment. We believe that our Manufacturing free cash flow calculation provides a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing our ability to fund operations. This measure is not a financial measure under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should be used in conjunction with GAAP cash measures provided in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Our Manufacturing free cash flow measure may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies as there is no definitive accounting standard on how the measure should be calculated.  

A reconciliation of net cash from operating activities of continuing operations as presented in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Manufacturing free cash flow is provided below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our Manufacturing group’s free cash flow improved by $62 million in 2009, compared with 2008, as lower capital expenditures of $299 million and working capital improvements offset lower earnings and an increase in cash paid for restructuring activities. Cash used for restructuring activities totaled $132 million in 2009, compared with $3 million in 2008 and none in 2007. In 2008, free cash flow decreased $284 million largely due to a higher investment in inventories related to increased production levels and inventory build at Bell and Cessna and a $168 million increase in capital expenditures in connection with the ramp up of production.  

29   
Cash flows from continuing operations for the Manufacturing group as presented in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cash flow from operating activities increased $331 million in 2009, compared with 2008, largely due to $562 million in lower capital contributions paid to the Finance group, net of dividends received, and working capital improvements, partially offset by lower earnings. We used $48 million in working capital in 2009, compared with $434 million in 2008, largely related to significant inventory reductions. In 2008, cash flow from operating activities decreased, primarily due to a $625 million capital contribution made to the Finance group.  

Investing cash flows in 2009, 2008 and 2007 primarily include capital expenditures of $238 million, $537 million and $369 million, respectively. The decrease in 2009 is largely due to a reduction in discretionary spending due to the economic recession. In addition, in 2008 and 2007, we paid $109 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, for acquisitions, primarily related to AAI.  

Financing activities provided more cash in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the draw of our $1.2 billion on bank lines of credit, a portion of which was used to repay outstanding commercial paper borrowings, net proceeds of $442 million from the issuance of the Convertible Notes (net of hedge), $333 million in cash from the issuance of our common stock and common stock warrants, $595 million in net proceeds from the issuance of senior notes and a decrease in dividends paid. These increases in cash provided were partially offset by an $869 million decrease in commercial paper borrowings in 2009, compared with an $867 million increase in these borrowings in 2008. In addition, we made $412 million in payments to settle advances against our company-owned officer life insurance policies in 2009, while in 2008, we received $222 million in advances against these policies.  

We have not repurchased any of our common stock (other than in connection with an executive compensation award) since we suspended all share repurchase activity under our repurchase program in September 2008. Under Board-authorized share repurchase programs, we spent $533 million in 2008 and $304 million in 2007 for share repurchases representing approximately 12 million and 6 million shares of common stock, respectively.  

On February 25, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors had voted to reduce our quarterly dividend to $0.02 per share for the first quarter of 2009 in an effort to increase our liquidity in the long-term interest of our shareholders. Accordingly, the annual dividend decreased to $0.08 in 2009 from $0.92 in 2008. Dividend payments to shareholders totaled $21 million, $284 million and $154 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, the timing of our quarterly dividend payments resulted in four payments, compared with three payments in 2007.  

Capital Contributions Paid To and Dividends Received From the Finance Group  

Under a Support Agreement between Textron Inc. and TFC, Textron Inc. is required to maintain a controlling interest in TFC. The agreement also requires Textron Inc. to ensure that TFC maintains fixed charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholder’s equity of no less than $200 million. Due to a goodwill impairment charge of $169 million at TFC, along with other charges resulting from the exit plan discussed above, on December 29, 2008, Textron Inc. was required to make a cash payment to TFC, which was reflected as a capital contribution, to maintain compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and to maintain the leverage ratio required by its credit facility. Cash contributions paid to TFC and dividends paid by TFC to Textron Inc. are detailed below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

An additional cash contribution of $75 million was made to TFC on January 12, 2010 to maintain compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the Support Agreement.  

30   
Due to the nature of these contributions, we classify these contributions within cash flows used by operating activities for the Manufacturing group in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Capital contributions to support Finance group growth in the ongoing captive finance business are classified as cash flows from financing activities. The Finance group’s net income (loss) is excluded from the Manufacturing group’s cash flows, while dividends from the Finance group are included within cash flows from operating activities for the Manufacturing group as they represent a return on investment.  

Finance Group Cash Flows  

The cash flows from continuing operations for the Finance group are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We generated cash from investing activities in the Finance group as new finance receivable originations declined to $3.7 billion in 2009 from $11.9 billion in 2008 as we effected our exit plan for the non-captive business. Finance receivables repaid and proceeds from sales and securitizations decreased to $5.4 billion in 2009 from $11.9 billion in 2008. In 2008, cash used in investing activities decreased from 2007, primarily due to a decrease in finance receivable originations, net of collections and sale proceeds, largely related to our decision to exit the non-captive business, resulting in lower originations.  

The Finance group used more cash for financing activities in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the repayment of debt and commercial paper in 2009, totaling $4.5 billion, compared with $2.2 billion in 2008. The Finance group’s financing outflows were partially offset by $1.7 billion in proceeds from the first quarter 2009 drawdown on its bank lines of credit. In 2008, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt totaled $1.5 billion.  

In 2009 and 2008, the Manufacturing group agreed to lend the Finance group, with interest, funds to pay down maturing debt. As of January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009, the outstanding balance due to the Manufacturing group was $447 million and $133 million, respectively.  

The Finance group received $270 million in capital contributions from the Manufacturing group in 2009, compared with $625 million in 2008, to enable it to maintain compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the Support Agreement. In addition, the Finance group paid $207 million more in dividends to the Manufacturing group in 2009, compared with 2008.  

More cash was used for financing activities in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to an increase in debt payments, partially offset by the 2008 capital contribution received from the Manufacturing group and lower proceeds from borrowings related to the reduction in managed receivable growth.  

Consolidated Cash Flows  

The consolidated cash flows from continuing operations, after elimination of activity between the borrowing groups, are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Consolidated cash provided by operating activities increased, primarily due to working capital improvements, largely related to a reduction in inventory, partially offset by lower earnings and an increase in cash used in connection with our restructuring program.  

We received more cash from investing activities, primarily due to the Finance group’s exit plan, which resulted in lower finance receivable originations. In 2007, $1.1 billion in cash was used for acquisitions, primarily related to AAI.  

More cash was used for financing activities as we repaid $4.2 billion in maturing long-term debt, including early debt extinguishments, compared with $1.9 billion in 2008. This use was partially offset by the receipt of $3.0 billion from drawing on our lines of credit, which was partially offset by a $1.6 billion decrease in commercial paper borrowings in 2009, compared with a $218 million increase in net commercial paper borrowings in 2008. We also used more cash in 2008 for stock repurchases and dividend payments, compared with 2009 as discussed in the “Manufacturing Group Cash Flow” section. In 2008, we received less cash from financing activities, compared with 2007, primarily due to $663 million in lower proceeds from borrowings, net of principal payments.  

31   
Captive Financing and Other Intercompany Transactions  

The Finance group finances retail purchases and leases for new and used aircraft and equipment manufactured by our Manufacturing group, otherwise known as captive financing. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers or from securitizations is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties. However, in the cash flow information provided for the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to a customer and is financed by the Finance group, the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s statement of cash flows, the cash received from the Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

Reclassification and elimination adjustments included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009, captive finance receivable originations have decreased largely due to lower aircraft sales. In addition, in April 2009, we signed a three-year agreement with a financial services company that now provides financing to third parties for a portion of our sales of E-Z-GO golf cars. We expect this agreement to reduce future finance receivable originations in this business.  

Consolidated Discontinued Operations Cash Flows  

The cash flows from discontinued operations are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009, cash flows from investing activities primarily include approximately $280 million in after-tax net proceeds upon the sale of HR Textron, partially offset by $69 million in tax payments related to the sale of the Fluid & Power business. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we received net cash proceeds from the sale of the Fluid & Power business of approximately $479 million. In 2007, cash flows from investing activities are primarily related to the realization of cash tax benefits from the Fastening Systems business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details concerning these dispositions.  

32   
Contractual Obligations  

Finance Group  

Due to the nature of finance companies, we believe that it is meaningful to include contractual cash receipts that we expect to receive in the future. The following table summarizes the Finance group’s liquidity position, including all managed finance receivables and both on- and off-balance sheet funding sources as of January 2, 2010, for the specified years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Excludes cash that may be generated by the disposal of operating lease residual assets and other assets in addition to cash that may be used to pay future income taxes, accrued interest and other liabilities.  

 (2)   Securitized on-balance sheet and securitized off-balance sheet debt payments are based on the contractual receipts of the underlying receivables, which are remitted into the securitization structure when and as they are received. These payments do not represent contractual obligations of the Finance group, and we do not provide legal recourse to investors who purchase interests in the securitizations beyond the credit enhancement inherent in the retained subordinate interests.  

 (3)   Interest payments and receipts reflect the current interest rate paid or received on the related debt and finance receivables. They do not include anticipated changes in either market interest rates or changes in borrower performance, which could have an impact on the interest rate according to the terms of the related debt or finance receivable contract.  

 (4)   Finance receivable receipts are based on contractual cash flows only and do not reflect any reserves for uncollectible amounts. These receipts could differ due to sales, prepayments, charge-offs and other factors, including the inability of borrowers to repay the balance of the loan at the contractual maturity date. Finance receivable receipts on the held for sale portfolio represent the contractual balance of the finance receivable and, therefore, exclude the potential negative impact from selling the portfolio at the estimated fair value.   

This liquidity profile is an indicator of the Finance group’s ability to repay outstanding funding obligations, assuming contractual collection of all finance receivables, absent access to new sources of liquidity or origination of additional finance receivables. In addition, at January 2, 2010, our Finance group had $402 million in other liabilities, primarily including accounts payable and accrued expenses, that are payable within the next 12 months.  

33   
At January 2, 2010, the Finance group had $350 million of unused commitments to fund new and existing customers under revolving lines of credit, construction loans and equipment loans and leases. These commitments generally have an original duration of less than three years, and funding under these facilities is dependent on the availability of eligible collateral and compliance with customary financial covenants. Since many of the agreements will not be used to the extent committed or will expire unused, the total commitment amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We also have ongoing customer relationships, including manufacturers and dealers in the distribution finance product line, which do not contractually obligate us to provide funding; however, we may choose to fund under certain of these relationships to facilitate an orderly liquidation and mitigate credit losses. Neither of these potential fundings is included as contractual obligations in the table above.  

Manufacturing Group  

The following table summarizes the known contractual obligations, as defined by reporting regulations, of our Manufacturing group as of January 2, 2010, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these obligations are expected to be satisfied:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We maintain defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans other than pensions as discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Included in the above table are discounted estimated benefit payments we expect to make related to unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Actual benefit payments are dependent on a number of factors, including mortality assumptions, expected retirement age, rate of compensation increases and medical trend rates, which are subject to change in future years. Our policy for funding pension plans is to make contributions annually, consistent with applicable laws and regulations; however, future contributions to our pension plans are not included in the above table since the future cash outflows are uncertain. We expect to make contributions to our funded pension plans of approximately $20 million in 2010. Based on our current assumptions, which may change with changes in market conditions, our current contribution estimates for each of the years from 2011 through 2014 are estimated to be in the range of approximately $200 million to $400 million under the plan provisions in place at this time.  

Other long-term liabilities included in the table consist primarily of undiscounted amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 2, 2010, representing obligations under deferred compensation arrangements and estimated environmental remediation costs. Payments under deferred compensation arrangements have been estimated based on management’s assumptions of expected retirement age, mortality, stock price and rates of return on participant deferrals. The timing of cash flows associated with environmental remediation costs is largely based on historical experience. Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, unrecognized tax benefits and product liability reserves, have been excluded from the table due to the uncertainty of the timing of payments combined with the absence of historical trends to be used as a predictor for such payments.  

Operating leases represent undiscounted obligations under noncancelable leases. Purchase obligations represent undiscounted obligations for which we are committed to purchase goods and services as of January 2, 2010. The ultimate liability for these obligations may be reduced based upon termination provisions included in certain purchase contracts, the costs incurred to date by vendors under these contracts or by recourse under firm contracts with the U.S. Government under normal termination clauses.  

34   
Critical Accounting Estimates  

To prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we must make complex and subjective judgments in the selection and application of accounting policies. The accounting policies that we believe are most critical to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations are listed below. We believe these policies require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments in estimating the effect of inherent uncertainties. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes other significant accounting policies.  

Allowance for Losses on Finance Receivables Held for Investment  

We evaluate our allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment based on a combination of factors. For homogeneous loan pools, we examine current delinquencies, the characteristics of the existing accounts, historical loss experience, the value of the underlying collateral, general economic conditions and trends, and the potential impact of the lack of liquidity available to our borrowers and their customers as a result of our current decision to exit our non-captive finance business. We estimate losses will range from 0.75% to 10.0% of finance receivables held for investment depending on the specific homogeneous loan pool. For larger balance commercial loans, we also consider borrower-specific information, industry trends and estimated discounted cash flows.  

Provision for losses on finance receivables held for investment is charged to income in amounts sufficient to maintain the allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment at a level considered adequate to cover losses inherent in the owned finance receivable held for investment portfolio based on management’s evaluation and analysis of this portfolio. While management believes that its consideration of the factors and assumptions referred to above does result in an accurate evaluation of existing losses in the portfolio based on prior trends and experience, changes in the assumptions or trends within reasonable historical volatility may have a material impact on our allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment. The allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment currently represents 5.49% of total finance receivables held for investment. During the last five years, net charge-offs as a percentage of finance receivables held for investment have ranged from 0.38% to 1.82%.  

Finance Receivables Held for Sale  

Finance receivables are classified as held for sale based on the determination that we no longer intend to hold the receivables for the foreseeable future, until maturity or payoff, or there no longer is the ability to hold to maturity. Our decision to classify certain finance receivables as held for sale is based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, contractual duration, type of collateral, credit strength of the borrowers, the existence of continued contractual commitments and the perceived marketability of the receivables. On an ongoing basis, these factors, combined with our overall liquidation strategy, determine which finance receivables we have the positive intent to hold for the foreseeable future and which receivables we will hold for sale.  

Our current strategy is based on an evaluation of both our performance and liquidity position and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or the marketability of our finance receivables. A change in this strategy could result in a change in the classification of our finance receivables. As a result of the significant influence of economic and liquidity conditions on our business plans and strategies, and the rapid changes in these and other factors we utilize to determine which assets are classified as held for sale, we currently believe the term “foreseeable future” represents a time period of six to nine months. We also believe that unanticipated changes in both internal and external factors affecting our financial performance, liquidity position or the value and/or marketability of our finance receivables could result in a modification of this assessment. If we determine that finance receivables classified as held for sale will not be sold and we have the intent and ability to hold the finance receivables for the foreseeable future, until maturity or payoff, the finance receivables are reclassified to held for investment at the lower of cost or fair value at that time. Conversely, if we determine that there are other finance receivables that we determine we no longer intend or have the ability to hold to maturity, these receivables would be designated as held for sale, and a valuation allowance would be established at that time, if necessary. At January 2, 2010, if we had classified additional finance receivables as held for sale, a valuation allowance would likely have been required at that time based on the fair value estimates we completed for our footnote disclosure requirements. See page 68 in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table where we have included the carrying value and fair value for the assets and liabilities that currently are not recorded at fair value on our balance sheet.  

Finance receivables held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. At the time of transfer to the held for sale classification, we establish a valuation allowance for any shortfall between the carrying value, net of all deferred fees and costs, and fair value. Upon the initial classification to held for sale, any shortfall is recorded as a charge within special charges. In addition, any allowance for loan losses previously allocated to  

35   
these finance receivables is reclassified to the valuation allowance account, which is netted with finance receivables held for sale on the balance sheet. After the valuation allowance is initially established, it is adjusted quarterly for any changes in the fair value of the receivables below the carrying value, with subsequent adjustments included in earnings within segment profit. Fair value changes can occur based on market interest rates, market liquidity and changes in the credit quality of the borrower and value of underlying loan collateral.  

There are no active, quoted market prices for our finance receivables. The estimate of fair value was determined based on the use of discounted cash flow models to estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the principal market for each type of loan in an orderly transaction, which includes the sale of both pools of similar assets and the sale of individual loans. The models we used incorporate estimates of the rate of return, financing cost, capital structure and/or discount rate expectations of prospective purchasers combined with estimated loan cash flows based on credit losses, payment rates and credit line utilization rates. Where available, the assumptions related to the expectations of prospective purchasers were compared with observable market inputs, including bids from prospective purchasers, and certain bond market indices for loans of similar perceived credit quality. Although we utilize and prioritize these market observable inputs in our discounted cash flow models, these inputs are rarely derived from markets with directly comparable loan structures, industries and collateral types. Therefore, all valuations of finance receivables held for sale involve significant management judgment, which can result in differences between our fair value estimates and those of other market participants and the sale price that we may ultimately recover.  

Long-Term Contracts  

We make a substantial portion of our sales to government customers pursuant to long-term contracts. These contracts require development and delivery of products over multiple years and may contain fixed-price purchase options for additional products. We account for these long-term contracts under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.  

Under the percentage-of-completion method, we estimate profit as the difference between total estimated revenues and cost of a contract. We then recognize that estimated profit over the contract term based on either the costs incurred (under the cost-to-cost method, which typically is used for development effort) or the units delivered (under the units-of-delivery method, which is used for production effort), as appropriate under the circumstances. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project costs at completion and, in some cases, includes estimates of recoveries asserted against the customer for changes in specifications. Due to the size, length of time and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total contract costs and revenue through completion is complicated and subject to many variables relative to the outcome of future events over a period of several years. We are required to make numerous assumptions and estimates relating to items such as expected engineering requirements, complexity of design and related development costs, performance of subcontractors, availability and cost of materials, labor productivity and cost, overhead and capital costs, manufacturing efficiencies and the achievement of contract milestones, including product deliveries.  

Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We update our projections of costs at least semiannually or when circumstances significantly change. Adjustments to projected costs are recognized in earnings when determinable. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable. Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different revenues and/or cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Our earnings could be reduced by a material amount resulting in a charge to earnings if (a) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than expected due to changes in customer specifications prior to contract amendment, (b) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than previously estimated due to cost overruns or inflation, (c) there is a change in engineering efforts required during the development stage of the contract or (d) we are unable to meet contract milestones.  

Goodwill  

We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances, such as declines in sales, earnings or cash flows, or material adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit might be impaired. Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment using a two-step process. In Step 1, companies are required to estimate fair value of their reporting units, which may be done using various methodologies, including the income method using discounted cash flows. If its estimated fair value exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit is not impaired, and no further analysis is performed. Otherwise, the amount of the impairment must be determined in Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. In Step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by assigning a fair value to all of the reporting unit’s assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination at fair value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  

36   
Fair values are established primarily using discounted cash flows that incorporate assumptions for the unit’s short and long-term revenue growth rates, operating margins and discount rates, which represent our best estimates of current and forecasted market conditions, current cost structure, anticipated net cost reductions, and the implied rate of return that we believe a market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. The revenue growth rates and operating margins used in our discounted cash flow analysis are based on our businesses’ strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts. The long-term growth rate we use to determine the terminal value of the business is based on our assessment of its minimum expected terminal growth rate, as well as its past historical growth and broader economic considerations such as gross domestic product, inflation and the maturity of the markets we serve. We utilize a weighted-average cost of capital in our impairment analysis that makes assumptions about the capital structure that we believe a market participant would make and include a risk premium based on an assessment of risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. We believe this approach yields a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that an independent investor or market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed.  

As further discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our annual test in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in an impairment charge of $80 million in the Golf & Turf reporting unit. The fair value of all the other reporting units exceeded their carrying values, and we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any of these units might fail the Step 1 impairment test in the foreseeable future.  

Retirement Benefits  

We maintain various pension and postretirement plans for our employees globally. These plans include significant pension and postretirement benefit obligations, which are calculated based on actuarial valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses include expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates and healthcare cost projections. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and the rate of compensation increases. We evaluate and update these assumptions annually.  

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension expense. For 2009, the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in calculating pension expense was 8.58%, compared with 8.66% in 2008. In 2009 and 2008, the assumed rate of return for our domestic plans, which represent approximately 88% of our total pension assets, was 8.75%. A 50-basis-point decrease in this long-term rate of return in 2009 would have resulted in a $22 million increase in pension expense for our domestic plans.  

The discount rate enables us to state expected future benefit payments as a present value on the measurement date, reflecting the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. This rate should be in line with rates for high-quality fixed income investments available for the period to maturity of the pension benefits, which fluctuate as long-term interest rates change. A lower discount rate increases the present value of the benefit obligations and increases pension expense. In 2009, the weighted-average discount rate used in calculating pension expense was 6.61% , compared with 5.99% in 2008. For our domestic plans, the assumed discount rate was 6.57% in 2009, compared with 6.0% for 2008. A 50-basis-point decrease in this discount rate in 2009 would have resulted in a $32 million increase in pension expense for our domestic plans.  

The trend in healthcare costs is difficult to estimate, and it has an important effect on postretirement liabilities. The 2009 medical and prescription drug healthcare cost trend rates represent the weighted-average annual projected rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits. The 2009 medical rate of 7% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2019 and then remain at that level. The 2009 prescription drug rate of 10% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2019 and then remain at that level. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of a one-percentage-point change in the cost trend rate.  

37   
Warranty Liabilities  

We provide limited warranty and product maintenance programs, including parts and labor, for certain products for periods ranging from one to five years. A significant portion of these liabilities arises from our commercial aircraft businesses. We also may incur costs related to product recalls.  

We estimate the costs that may be incurred under warranty programs and record a liability in the amount of such costs at the time product revenue is recognized. Factors that affect this liability include the number of products sold, historical costs per claim, contractual recoveries from vendors, and historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, including production and warranty patterns for new models. During our initial aircraft model launches, we typically incur higher warranty-related costs until the production process matures, at which point warranty costs moderate.  

We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty and product maintenance liabilities periodically and adjust the amounts as necessary. Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and actual experience warrant. Should future warranty experience differ materially from our historical experience, we may be required to record additional warranty liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which these additional liabilities are required.  

Income Taxes  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying tax rates expected to be enacted for the year in which we expect the differences will reverse or settle. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that we believe it is more likely than not that we will realize these benefits. We periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets and reflect any changes in our estimates in a valuation allowance, with a corresponding adjustment to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), as appropriate. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we look to the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years, the feasibility of tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income.  

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments. Our estimate for the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Interest and penalties are accrued, where applicable. We recognize net tax-related interest and penalties for continuing operations in income tax expense. If we do not believe that it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities due to closure of income tax examinations, new regulatory or judicial pronouncements, or other relevant events. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis.  

38   
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk