PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries.  

We are a leading global food, snack and beverage company. Our brands – which include Quaker Oats, Tropicana, Gatorade, Lay’s and Pepsi – are household names that stand for quality throughout the world. As a global company, we also have strong regional brands such as Walkers, Gamesa and Sabritas. Either independently or through contract manufacturers, we make, market and sell a variety of convenient, enjoyable and wholesome foods and beverages in over 200 countries. Our portfolio includes oat, rice and grain-based foods, as well as carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Our largest operations are in North America (United States and Canada), Mexico, Russia and the United Kingdom. 

We are united by our unique commitment to Performance with Purpose, which means delivering sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet. Our goal is to continue to build a balanced portfolio of enjoyable and wholesome foods and beverages, find innovative ways to reduce the use of energy, water and packaging and provide a great workplace for our associates. Additionally, we are committed to respecting, supporting and investing in the local communities where we operate by hiring local people, creating products designed for local tastes and partnering with local farmers, governments and community groups. We make this commitment because we are a responsible company, and a healthier future for all people and our planet means a more successful future for PepsiCo.  

In recognition of our continuing sustainability efforts, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in September 2010. These indices are compiled annually.  

Our Divisions  

We are organized into four business units, as follows: 

   1.  PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa businesses in Mexico;  

   2.  PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PepsiCo Beverages Americas and Pepsi Beverages Company;  

2  

Table of Contents 

   3.  PepsiCo Europe, which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in Europe; and  

   4.  PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in AMEA. 

Our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows:  

   •    FLNA,  

   •    QFNA,  

   •    LAF,  

   •    PAB,  

   •    Europe, and  

   •    AMEA.  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas.  

Frito-Lay North America  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, FLNA makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. These foods include Lay’s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Fritos corn chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars and SunChips multigrain snacks. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. FLNA’s net revenue was $13.4 billion, $13.2 billion and $12.5 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and approximated 23%, 31% and 29% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Quaker Foods North America  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, QFNA makes, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Cap’n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA’s net revenue was $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.9 billion in both 2009 and 2008 and approximated 3% of our total net revenue in 2010 and 4% of our total net revenue in both 2009 and 2008. 

3  

Table of Contents 

Latin America Foods  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, LAF makes, markets and sells a number of snack food brands including Doritos, Marias Gamesa, Cheetos, Ruffles, Emperador, Saladitas, Sabritas and Lay’s, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. LAF’s net revenue was $6.3 billion, $5.7 billion and $5.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively and approximated 11%, 13% and 14% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

PepsiCo Americas Beverages  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, PAB makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Tropicana Pure Premium, Electropura, Sierra Mist, Epura and Mirinda. PAB also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PAB licenses the Aquafina water brand to its independent bottlers and markets this brand. Furthermore, PAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Dr Pepper and Crush. PAB sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PAB’s net revenue was $20.4 billion, $10.1 billion and $10.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and approximated 35%, 23% and 25% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) in 2010.  

Europe  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, Europe makes, markets and sells a number of leading snack foods including Lay’s, Walkers, Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, 7UP and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, Europe licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). Europe’s net revenue was $9.3 billion, $6.7 billion and $6.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,  

4  

Table of Contents 

 respectively and approximated 16% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008. See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisitions of PBG and PAS in 2010.  

Also see “Acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC” below and Note 15 for additional information about our acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC.  

Asia, Middle East & Africa 

AMEA makes, markets and sells a number of leading snack food brands including Lay’s, Chipsy, Kurkure, Doritos, Cheetos and Smith’s, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets and sells many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. AMEA also makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP and Mountain Dew. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, AMEA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, AMEA licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. AMEA also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). AMEA’s net revenue was $6.6 billion, $5.6 billion and $5.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively and approximated 12%, 13% and 12% of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

New Organizational Structure  

Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, we realigned certain of our reportable segments to reflect changes in management responsibility. As a result, as of the beginning of our 2011 fiscal year, our Quaker snacks business in North America will be reported within our QFNA segment. Prior to this change, Quaker snacks in North America was reported as part of our FLNA segment. Additionally, as of the beginning of the first quarter of 2011, our South Africa snacks business will be reported within our Europe segment. Prior to this change, this business was reported as part of our AMEA segment. These changes did not impact our other existing reportable segments. Our historical segment reporting will be reclassified in 2011 to reflect the new organizational structure. The reportable segment amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through the end of our 2010 fiscal year.  

Acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC  

On February 3, 2011, we announced that we had completed the previously announced acquisition of ordinary shares, American Depositary Shares, and Global Depositary Shares of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC, a company incorporated in the Russian Federation (WBD), which represent in the aggregate approximately 66% of WBD’s outstanding ordinary shares, pursuant to the purchase agreement dated December 1, 2010 between PepsiCo and certain selling shareholders of WBD for approximately $3.8  

5  

Table of Contents 

 billion. The acquisition increased PepsiCo’s total ownership of WBD to approximately 77%. See Note 15 for additional information about our acquisition of WBD.  

Our Distribution Network  

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading “Our Distribution Network” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

Ingredients and Other Supplies  

The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. These ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased mainly in the open market. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs.  

Our Brands  

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Alegro, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester’s, Chipsy, Cracker Jack, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gamesa, Gatorade, G2, G Series, Grandma’s, Izze, Kurkure, Lay’s, Life, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mug, Munchies, Naked, Near East, Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Red Rock Deli, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Saladitas, Sakata, Sandora, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Santitas, Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, V Water, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products, including Dole and Ocean Spray. Joint ventures in which we participate either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, Starbucks and Sabra. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes,  

6  

Table of Contents 

 and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.  

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.  

Seasonality  

Our beverage and food divisions are subject to seasonal variations. Our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our business.  

Our Customers  

Our primary customers include wholesale distributors, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, authorized independent bottlers and foodservice distributors, including hotels and restaurants. We normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.  

Retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2010, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2010 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers (including concentrate sales to PBG and PAS prior to the February 26, 2010 acquisition date) which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. See “Our Customers” and “Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about acquisitions of PBG and PAS in 2010.  

Our Competition  

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company, has a larger share of CSD (carbonated soft drinks) consumption,  

7  

Table of Contents 

 while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local, regional and private label competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 (1)  The categories and category share information in the charts above are as of December 2010 and are defined by the following source of the information: Information Resources, Inc. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to this service.  

Research and Development  

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products and improvement in the quality of existing products. In 2010, we created our Global Nutrition Group, led by our Chief Scientific Officer, charged with collaborating with each of our divisions to grow our nutrition portfolio by focusing on four target platforms: fruits and vegetables, grains, dairy and functional nutrition. We also expanded our portfolio of products made with all-natural ingredients, increased the amount of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and low-fat dairy in certain of our products and took steps to reduce the average amount of sodium, saturated fat and added sugar per serving in certain of our products. We entered into a long-term collaboration agreement with Senomyx, Inc., a leading company focused on proprietary technologies, to discover and develop sweet enhancers and natural high-potency sweeteners with the intent to bring to the marketplace lower-calorie, great tasting PepsiCo beverages. We invested in agricultural development and the development and implementation of new technologies to both enhance the quality and value of current and proposed product lines and to minimize our impact on the environment, including by building facilities that conserve energy and raw materials and reduce waste and by reviewing our packaging process to continue to reduce total packaging volume, recycle containers, use renewable resources and remove environmentally sensitive materials. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $488 million in 2010, $414 million in 2009 and  

9  

Table of Contents 

 $388 million in 2008 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.  

In the United States, we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws regulating the sales of products in schools, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including California Proposition 65 which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. Many food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” Outside the United States, we are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations. In addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.  

Legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain of the countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. In addition, proposals have been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which would impose special taxes on products we sell. For example, various federal, state and local government officials have raised the possibility of taxing the sale of certain “sugared” beverages, including non-diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas and flavored waters, to help pay for the cost of certain government programs.  

The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations.  

10  

Table of Contents 

We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater and air emissions, handling and disposal of waters, and, in the United States, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, release and disposal of wastes at on-site and off-site locations. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. We and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. While neither the results of these proceedings nor any indemnification obligations or other liabilities of our subsidiaries in connection therewith can be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”  

Employees  

As of December 25, 2010, we employed approximately 294,000 people worldwide, including approximately 108,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.  

Available Information  

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our Internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.