PART I 

     Item 1. Business. 

 OVERVIEW  

 Aon Corporation ("Aon," "we," "us," or "our") serves its clients through two operating segments that include various worldwide subsidiaries:    

•Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services acts as an advisor and insurance broker, helping clients manage their risks, as well as negotiating and placing insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.   

•Consulting provides advice and services to clients related to health and benefits, retirement, compensation, strategic human capital, and human resource outsourcing.   

 In November 2008, Aon completed its merger with Benfield Group Limited ("Benfield"), a leading independent reinsurance intermediary. Benfield will be integrated with our existing reinsurance operations (Aon Re Global) and will be operated globally under the newly created Aon Benfield brand.  

 In April 2008, we completed the sale of our Combined Insurance Company of America ("CICA") and Sterling Insurance Company ("Sterling") subsidiaries, which represented the majority of the operations of our former Insurance Underwriting segment. In January 2009, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our remaining property and casualty insurance underwriting operations that were in run-off. The results of all of these operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

 Our clients include corporations and businesses, insurance companies, professional organizations, independent agents and brokers, governments, and other entities. We also serve individuals through personal lines, affinity groups, and certain specialty operations.  

 Aon was incorporated in 1979, and is the parent corporation of both long-established and more recently acquired companies. Aon has approximately 37,700 employees and operates in more than 120 countries and sovereignties.  

 SEGMENT OPERATIONS  

 Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services  

 The Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment generated approximately 82% of our total operating segment revenues in 2008. This is the largest of our operating segments, with approximately 30,200 employees worldwide. Risk and Insurance Brokerage and related services are provided by certain indirect subsidiaries, including Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc., Aon Holdings International bv, Aon Re Global, Inc., and Aon Limited (U.K.). Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services also includes our premium finance business, Cananwill, Inc. The U.S. operations of Cananwill were sold in February 2009.  

 Subsegments  

 We measure our revenues in this segment using the following subsegments:  

 Risk Management and Insurance Brokerage encompasses our retail brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement, and captive management services and premium finance services for small, mid-sized, and large companies, including Fortune 500 corporations, and individuals. The Americas' operations provide products and services to clients in North, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. Our United Kingdom; Europe, Middle East & Africa; and Asia Pacific operations offer similar products and services to clients throughout the rest of the  

2 

world. Risk management services also include risk identification and assessment, safety engineering, claims and loss cost management, and program administration.  

 Retail brokerage operates through industry-focused practice areas to deliver specialized advice and services in such industries as entertainment, media, financial institutions, marine, aviation, construction, healthcare and energy, among others.  

 As a retail broker, we generally serve as an advisor to corporate clients and can arrange a wide spectrum of risk management solutions for property, general liability, professional and directors' and officers' liability, workers' compensation, and other exposures. We also provide affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations, and businesses.  

 Our managing general underwriting ("MGUs") units, in concert with leading insurers, underwrite and market a diverse line of specialty products including fidelity, directors and officers, general liability, property, commercial auto, fine arts and marine. The MGUs also serve the special needs of particular customer segments such as mortgage banks, sports, leisure and entertainment, and not-for-profit.  

 We are also a major provider in managing captive insurance companies that enable our clients to manage risks that would be cost prohibitive or unavailable in traditional insurance markets.  

 Reinsurance Brokerage and Related Services offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios, improve capital utilization, evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide, along with investment banking products and services. An insurance or reinsurance company may seek reinsurance or other risk-transfer solutions on all or a portion of the risks it insures. Our reinsurance brokerage services use dynamic financial analysis and capital market alternatives, such as transferring catastrophe risk through securitization. While our reinsurance activities are principally focused on property and casualty lines, these activities also include specialty lines such as professional liability, medical malpractice, accident, life and health. Services include advice, placement of reinsurance and alternative risk transfer arrangements with capital markets, and related services such as actuarial, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis, catastrophe modeling, and claims services.  

 Compensation for Services  

 We generate revenues through commissions, fees from clients, and compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies for services we provide to them. Commission rates and fees vary depending upon several factors, which may include the amount of premium, the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular services provided to an insurer or reinsurer, and the capacity in which the Aon entity acts. We also receive investment income on funds held on behalf of clients and insurance carriers.  

 Competitive Conditions  

 We are ranked as the largest insurance broker worldwide based on pure brokerage operations. The risk and insurance brokerage services business is highly competitive, and we compete with two other global insurance brokers in addition to numerous specialist, regional and local firms in almost every area of our business; insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents; and with other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms, and consultants that provide risk-related services and products.  

 Consulting  

 The Consulting segment generated approximately 18% of our total operating segment revenues in 2008. This segment has approximately 6,400 employees worldwide with operations in the U.S., Canada,  

3 

the U.K., Europe, South Africa and the Asia Pacific region. Based on total revenues, we believe we are among the top five largest employee benefit consultants in the world.  

 Subsegments  

 Through our Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc. subsidiary ("Aon Consulting"), we provide a broad range of consulting services in the following subsegments and practice areas:  

 Consulting Services:  

 Health and Benefits advises clients about structuring, funding, and administering employee benefit programs, which attract, retain, and motivate employees. Benefits consulting includes health and welfare, executive benefits, workforce strategies and productivity, absence management, benefits administration, data-driven health, compliance, employee commitment, investment advisory, and elective benefits services.  

 Retirement professionals specialize in global actuarial services, defined contribution consulting, investment consulting, tax and ERISA consulting, and pension administration.  

 Compensation focuses on compensation advisory/counsel including: compensation planning design, executive reward strategies, salary survey and benchmarking, market share studies and sales force effectiveness, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries.  

 Strategic Human Capital delivers advice to complex global organizations on talent, change and organizational effectiveness issues, including talent strategy and acquisition, executive on-boarding, performance management, leadership assessment and development, communication strategy, workforce training and change management.  

 Outsourcing:  

 Human Resource Outsourcing offers employment processing, performance improvement, benefits administration, and other employment-related services.  

 Aon Consulting works to maximize the value of clients' human resources spending, increase employee productivity, and improve employee performance. Our approach addresses a trend toward more diverse workforces (demographics, nationalities, cultures and work/lifestyle preferences) that require more choices and flexibility among employers — with benefit options suited to individual needs.  

 Our consulting professionals and their clients also identify options in human resource outsourcing and process improvement. Prime areas where companies choose to use outsourcing services include the assessment and selection of job candidates, employment processing, training and development, benefits administration, and the individual benefits enrollment process.  

 Compensation for Services  

 Aon Consulting revenues are principally derived from fees paid by clients for advice and services. In addition, insurance companies pay us commissions for placing individual and group insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages, and pay us fees for consulting and other services that we provide to them.  

 Competitive Conditions  

 Our consulting business faces strong competition from other worldwide and national consulting companies, as well as regional and local firms. Competitors include independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial  

4 

services firms. Some of our competitors provide administrative or consulting services as an adjunct to other primary services.  

 Insurance Underwriting  

 Our former insurance underwriting business had operations in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia Pacific. In April 2008, we completed the sale of our CICA and Sterling subsidiaries, which represented the majority of the operations of our former Insurance Underwriting segment. In January 2009, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our remaining property and casualty operations that were in run-off. These operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

 See "Key Recent Events" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 7, "Disposal of Operations," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further details.  

 Disposal of Operations  

 Aon hereby incorporates by reference Note 7 "Disposal of Operations," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

 Licensing and Regulation  

 Regulatory authorities in the states or countries in which the operating subsidiaries of our Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services segment conduct business may require individual or company licensing to act as brokers, agents, third party administrators, managing general agents, reinsurance intermediaries, or adjusters.  

 Under the laws of most states in the U.S. and most foreign countries, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting, renewing and revoking brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or country. The operating terms may vary according to the licensing requirements of the particular state or country, which may require, among other things, that a firm operate in the state or country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses are issued only to individual residents or locally owned business entities. In such cases, our subsidiaries have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the state or country.  

 Our subsidiaries must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are:    

•enforced by state agencies in the U.S., by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") in the U.K., and by various regulatory agencies in other countries through the granting and revoking of licenses to do business, licensing of agents, monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, minimum loss ratio requirements, limits on premium and commission rates, and minimum reserve and capital requirements. State insurance departments monitor compliance through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.   

•designed to ensure financial solvency of insurance companies and to require fair and adequate service and treatment for policyholders.   

 Our insurance underwriting subsidiaries submit quarterly and annual financial reports to regulators in the U.S. using statutory accounting principles, which differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Statutory accounting principles, which are intended to protect policyholders, are based, in general, on a liquidation concept, while U.S. GAAP are based on a going-concern concept.  

 State insurance regulators are members of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). The NAIC has a formula for analyzing insurers called risk-based capital ("RBC"). RBC  

5 

establishes "minimum" capital threshold levels that vary with the size and mix of a company's business. This formula is designed to identify companies with capital levels that may require regulatory attention.  

 State insurance holding company laws require prior notice to, and approval of, the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate transfers of assets within the holding company structure, including the payment of dividends by insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, premium finance loans by Cananwill, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, are subject to one or more truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance premium finance acts, retail installment sales acts, and other similar consumer protection legislation. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations can result in the temporary suspension or permanent loss of the right to engage in business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.  

 Our principal U.K. subsidiary, Aon Limited, must be, and is, authorized by the FSA. FSA oversight was introduced following the European Union Insurance Mediation Directive ("the Directive") which:    

•set minimum standards for those involved in advising on, arranging, administering, or introducing contracts of insurance, and   

•includes rules governing handling funds held on behalf of clients that affect all brokers operating in the London market.   

 This regulation has, and will continue to, require significant operational changes, such as enhanced disclosures, particularly in connection with retail (private and non-commercial) customers. FSA regulations also include rules regarding the handling of funds held on behalf of clients that affect all brokers operating in the London market. As other member states of the European Union ("EU") adopt regulations to comply with the Directive, our operations in the EU have become or will become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements.  

 Clientele  

 Our clients operate in many businesses and industries throughout the world. No one client accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2008. Additionally, we place insurance with many insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2008.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 37,700 employees, of which approximately 11,600 work in the U.S.  

 Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  

 This report contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S.  

6 

anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, our ability to integrate Benfield successfully and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Benfield merger and other factors disclosed under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, below.  

 Website Access to Reports and Other Information  

 Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website (http://www.aon.com) as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Aon has filed the required certificate with the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") confirming the Company's compliance with the corporate governance listing standards set forth in Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Also posted on our website and available in print upon request, are the charters for our Audit, Compliance, Organization and Compensation, Governance/Nominating and Finance Committees, our Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct and our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, as well as any amendment to the Code of Conduct or waiver thereto applicable to any executive officer or director. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors.