PART I  

 ITEM 1. Business  

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in five business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive Media. For convenience, the terms “Company” and “we” are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted. On December 31, 2009, the Company completed an acquisition of Marvel Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Marvel businesses are reported primarily in our Studio Entertainment and Consumer Products segments.  

Information on the Company’s revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 149,000 people as of October 2, 2010.  

MEDIA NETWORKS  

The Media Networks segment is comprised of a domestic broadcast television network, television production and distribution operations, domestic television stations, international and domestic cable networks, domestic broadcast radio networks and stations, and publishing and digital operations.  

Domestic Broadcast Television Network  

The Company operates the ABC Television Network, which as of October 2, 2010, had affiliation agreements with 234 local stations reaching 99% of all U.S. television households. The ABC Television Network broadcasts programs in the following “dayparts”: daytime, primetime, late night, news, kids and sports.  

The ABC Television Network produces its own programs or acquires broadcast rights from third parties, as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company and pays varying amounts of compensation to certain of the affiliated stations for broadcasting the programs and commercial announcements included therein. In certain cases the ABC Television Network receives fees for its broadcast feed. The ABC Television Network derives the majority of its revenues from the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts.  

ABC.com is the official web site of the ABC Television Network and provides access to full-length episodes of ABC shows online. ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online. ABCNews.com also offers broadband subscriptions to the 24-hour live internet news channel, ABC News Now and to video-on-demand news reports from all ABC News broadcasts.  

Television Production and Distribution  

The Company produces and distributes live action and animated television programming under the ABC Studios, ABC Media Productions, and ABC Family Productions labels. Program development is carried out in collaboration with independent writers, producers, and creative teams, with a focus on half-hour comedies, one-hour dramas, and reality series primarily for primetime broadcasts. Primetime programming produced either for our networks or for third parties in the 2010/2011 television season include the returning one-hour dramas Army Wives, Brothers & Sisters, Castle, Criminal Minds, Desperate Housewives, Grey’s Anatomy, and Private Practice; the returning half-hour comedy Cougar Town; and new primetime series that premiered in the fall of 2010 which include the one-hour dramas Body of Proof, Detroit 187, and No Ordinary Family. Ugly Betty and Brothers & Sisters entered the domestic syndication market during 2010. We also produce Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials for network television and live-action syndicated programming. Syndicated programming includes Live! with Regis and Kelly, a daily talk show, and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, a game show.  

Disney-ABC Domestic Television and Disney Media Distribution distribute the Company’s productions, including certain programming aired on our cable networks, domestically and internationally, respectively. The Company’s productions are also distributed in DVD format by the Studio Entertainment segment and also online via Company internet sites such as ABC.com and on third party services such as iTunes.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Domestic Television Stations  

The Company owns ten television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the United States. All of our television stations are affiliated with the ABC Television Network and collectively reach 23% of the nation’s television households. Each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC Television Network, and syndicated programming; the second is the Live Well Network; and the third consists of weather reports powered by AccuWeather.  

Live Well Network debuted in April 2009 and provides high-definition programming focusing on lifestyle topics such as interior design, healthy cooking, and outdoor activities.  

Markets and details for the stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2010  

In November 2010, the Company entered into an agreement to sell two of its TV stations in the Flint, Michigan and Toledo, Ohio markets. The sale is expected to close in fiscal year 2011 subject to satisfaction of closing conditions.  

Cable Networks  

Our cable networks group provides national programming networks, licenses television programming in domestic and international markets and invests in foreign television broadcasting, programming, production and distribution entities. Programming at our cable networks is both internally produced and acquired from third parties. The two primary brands for our cable networks are ESPN and Disney Channel. In addition to cable network operations, we have ESPN- and Disney- branded radio operations, which are managed together with the cable operations.  

Cable networks derive a majority of their revenues from fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Service Providers or MVSPs) and, for certain networks (primarily ESPN and ABC Family), the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. Generally, the Company’s cable networks operate under multi-year carriage agreements with MVSPs that include contractually determined fees. The amounts that we can charge to MVSPs for our cable network services are largely dependent on competition and the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. Certain programming developed by our cable networks is also distributed in DVD format by our home entertainment division in the Studio Entertainment segment and also online via Company internet sites such as ESPN.com and also on third party services such as iTunes.  

2  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s significant cable networks and our ownership percentage and estimated subscribers as of October 2, 2010 are set forth in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Estimated U.S. subscriber counts according to Nielsen Media Research as of September 2010  

 (2)  Subscriber counts are not rated by Nielsen and are based on internal management reports. ESPN and A&E programming is distributed internationally through other networks discussed below.  

ESPN ESPN is a multimedia, multinational sports entertainment company that operates six domestic television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNEWS, ESPN Classic, ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network) and ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports). ESPN also operates four high-definition television simulcast services, ESPN HD, ESPN2 HD, ESPNEWS HD and ESPNU HD, and in June 2010 launched ESPN 3D featuring approximately 100 live events in its first year. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN owns, has equity interests in or has distribution agreements with 46 international sports networks reaching households in more than 200 countries and territories in 16 languages including a live sports network in the UK. ESPN holds a 50% equity interest in ESPN Star Sports, which distributes sports programming throughout most of Asia, and a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns The Sports Network, The Sports Network 2, Le Réseau des Sports, ESPN Classic Canada, the NHL Network and Discovery Canada.  

ESPN also operates:  

   •    ESPN.com - which delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video each month through its national hub and five local sites – ESPNBoston.com, EPSNChicago.com, ESPNDallas.com, ESPNLosAngeles.com and ESPNNewYork.com  

   •    ESPN3.com - which is a broadband service available to 53 million subscribers that delivers more than 4,000 live events  

   •    ESPN Mobile Properties - which delivers content, including live game coverage, alerts and highlights, to mobile service providers  

   •    ESPN Regional Television - which is a syndicator of collegiate sports programming  

   •    The ESPN Radio Network and five owned ESPN Radio stations  

   •    ESPN The Magazine  

   •    ESPN Enterprises - which develops branded licensing opportunities  

3  

Table of Contents 

   •    ESPN Zone – which provides a complete sports dining and entertainment experience. In June 2010, the Company closed five ESPN Zone restaurants. The Company continues to operate one ESPN Zone restaurant located in Anaheim, California and also licenses an ESPN Zone restaurant located in Los Angeles, California.  

The Company holds an 18% equity interest in The Active Network, Inc., a domestic online community and marketing platform for individuals and event organizers to participate in and promote sports and recreational activities.  

The ESPN Radio Network is carried on more than 750 stations, of which 355 are full-time, making it the largest sports radio network in the United States.  

Markets and details for the stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Based on Fall 2010 Arbitron Radio Market Rankings  

Disney Channels Worldwide  

Disney Channel Disney Channel is a 24-hour cable network with original series and movie programming targeted to children and families. Shows developed and produced internally for initial exhibition on Disney Channel include live-action comedy series, animated programming and educational preschool series, as well as projects for the Disney Channel Original Movie franchise. Live-action comedy series include Good Luck Charlie, Hannah Montana, JONAS, Sonny With A Chance, The Suite Life on Deck and Wizards of Waverly Place. Disney Channel also airs the animated programs, Phineas and Ferb and Fish Hooks. Original series for preschoolers include the animated series Disney’s Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Handy Manny, My Friends Tigger & Pooh and Special Agent Oso, as well as the live-action series Imagination Movers. Programming is also acquired from third parties and includes content from Disney’s theatrical film and television programming library.  

Playhouse Disney Playhouse Disney provides learning-focused programming for preschoolers. In the U.S., the daily Playhouse Disney programming block is aired on the Disney Channel. Playhouse Disney is aired internationally with channels in Latin America, Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa. Beginning in 2011, the Playhouse Disney block will be rebranded as Disney Junior, followed in 2012 with the launch of Disney Junior as a dedicated 24-hour basic channel for preschool-age children, parents and caregivers, featuring animated and live action programming which blends Disney’s unparalleled storytelling and beloved characters with learning, including early math and language skills and featuring healthy eating, lifestyle, and social skills.  

Disney XD Disney XD has a mix of live-action and animated programming for kids ages 6-14, targeting boys and their quest for discovery, accomplishment, sports, adventure and humor. The programming includes original series such as the Emmy Award-winning animated hit, Phineas and Ferb, Kick Buttowski, and the new live-action series, Pair of Kings, as well as movies and short-form content including sports-themed content developed with ESPN.  

In the U.S., Disney XD is seen on a 24-hour network. Disney XD channels have launched in Latin America, Europe and Asia, building its distribution base to 107 countries/territories.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Disney Cinemagic Disney Cinemagic is a premium subscription service in Europe. Disney Cinemagic shows Disney movies, classic and newer Disney cartoons and shorts as well as animated television series such as Disney’s House of Mouse, Lilo & Stitch: The Series, and Tarzan.  

Hungama Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India which features a mix of anime, Hindi-language series and game shows.  

ABC Family ABC Family is a U.S. television programming service that targets adults 18-34. ABC Family produces and acquires original programming including the returning series The Secret Life of the American Teenager, Greek, Lincoln Heights and new series Make It or Break It, Pretty Little Liars and Huge. Additionally, ABC Family airs content from our owned theatrical film library. ABC Family also features branded programming holiday events such as “13 Nights of Halloween” and “25 Days of Christmas”.  

ABCFamily.com creates digital extensions to ABC Family programming that feature interactivity and social networking. The site also features user-generated content and online programming that can be downloaded and customized based on individual user preferences.  

SOAPnet SOAPnet offers same-day episodes of daytime dramas at night and also original programming. Programming includes same-day episodes of daytime dramas such as All My Children, Days of Our Lives, One Life to Live, General Hospital and The Young and the Restless; primetime series The O.C., One Tree Hill, Beverly Hills 90210, and The Gilmore Girls; and original programs like Being Erica. Beginning in 2012, SOAPnet will transition to Disney Junior, which will be a 24-hour channel carrying children’s programming.  

Content related to SOAPnet’s programming is available on SOAPnet.com, including video extras, games, blogs, community forums, photos and downloadable content. Additionally, SOAPNETIC is a broadband fee-based service that provides behind-the-scenes coverage of the world of daytime dramas.  

AETN/Lifetime The A&E Television Networks (AETN) include A&E, The History Channel, The Biography Channel and History International. A&E offers entertainment ranging from reality series to original movies, dramatic series, and justice shows. The History Channel offers original non-fiction series and event-driven specials. The Biography Channel offers original series about prominent people and their lives, including the “Biography” series. History International focuses on the culture and history of various countries throughout the world from the perspective of locals. Internationally, A&E programming is available in 125 countries through joint ventures and distribution agreements with affiliates.  

Lifetime Entertainment Services (Lifetime) includes Lifetime Television, Lifetime Movie Network and Lifetime Real Women. Lifetime Television is devoted to women’s lifestyle programming. Lifetime Movie Network is a 24-hour movie channel. Lifetime Real Women is a 24-hour cable network with programming from a woman’s point of view.  

The Company’s share of the financial results of AETN/Lifetime is reported as “Equity in the income of investees” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Radio Disney Radio Disney is a 24/7 radio network for kids, tweens and families. Radio Disney is available on 37 terrestrial radio stations, 31 of which we own and on RadioDisney.com, Sirius and XM satellite radio, iTunes Radio Tuner, XM/DIRECTV and mobile phones. Radio Disney programming can be downloaded via the iTunes Music Store. Radio Disney is also available throughout most of South America via a separate Spanish language terrestrial broadcast.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Radio Disney stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Based on Fall 2010 Arbitron Radio Market Rankings  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DVDs, video games and the internet. With respect to the sale of advertising time, our broadcasting operations, certain of our cable networks and our television and radio stations compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVSPs and other advertising media such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, and the internet. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for viewers in individual market areas. A television or radio station in one market generally does not compete directly with stations in other markets.  

The growth in the number of networks distributed by MVSPs has resulted in increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for both our broadcasting and cable networks. The Company’s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by MVSPs. The Company’s contractual agreements with MVSPs are renewed or  

6  

Table of Contents 

 renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.  

The Company’s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. The Company currently has sports rights agreements with the National Football League (NFL), college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, National Basketball Association (NBA), National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), Major League Baseball (MLB), World Cup and various soccer leagues, and Golf and Tennis Associations.  

The Company’s internet web sites and digital products compete with other web sites and entertainment products in their respective categories.  

Advertising revenues at the Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met, and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company’s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.  

Federal Regulation  

Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following:  

   •    Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (or the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have generally received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals and approvals in the future.  

   •    Television and radio station ownership limits. The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:  

   •    FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any of the ten markets in which we own a television station.  

   •    Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience (for this purpose, FCC regulations attribute to UHF television stations only 50% of the television households in their market). For purposes of the FCC’s rules, our 10 stations reach approximately 23% of the national audience.  

   •    FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.  

   •    Dual networks. FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major television networks — ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC — from being under common ownership or control.  

   •    Regulation of programming. The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming. Broadcasters face a heightened risk of being found in violation of the indecency prohibition by the FCC because of recent FCC decisions, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. In the past several years, the FCC increased enforcement activities with respect to indecency, and a number of significant indecency cases against various  

7  

Table of Contents 

     broadcasters remain pending in the courts. Moreover, the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming are a maximum of $325,000 per violation.  

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.  

   •    Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to cable systems operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the cable operator must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act and its successors, including most recently the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA), which also requires the “must carry” or “retransmission consent” election, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station’s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. Under must carry, if a satellite carrier elects to carry one local station in a market, the satellite carrier must carry the signals of all local television stations that also request carriage.  

   •    Digital television. Pursuant to FCC regulations, all of the Company’s stations now operate exclusively on digital channels. Each station broadcasts three digital channels: the main channel, affiliated with the ABC Television Network; the Live Well Network; and weather reports powered by AccuWeather, along with news and sports headlines.  

   •    Cable and satellite carriage of programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. Litigation has been instituted against the Company, other program providers and distributors seeking among other things to achieve similar ends. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could, depending on its specific nature, have an impact on the Company’s operations.  

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and other legislation and of specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC’s regulatory authority.  

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.  

PARKS AND RESORTS  

The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line, and Adventures by Disney. The Company manages and has effective ownership interests of 51% and 47%, respectively, in Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company’s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties. On November 5, 2010, the Shanghai government and the Company announced a detailed agreement to build and operate a Disney theme park in the Pudong district of Shanghai. We are awaiting final approval from the central government on the incorporation of the related joint venture companies and the completion of the necessary regulatory processes.  

The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues predominately from the sale of admissions to the theme parks; charges for room nights at the hotels; merchandise, food and beverage sales; sales and rentals of vacation club properties; and sales of cruise vacations. Costs consist principally of labor; depreciation; costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold; marketing and sales expense; repairs and maintenance; and entertainment.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Walt Disney World Resort  

The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of owned land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Hollywood Studios and Disney’s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions in each of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

Magic Kingdom — The Magic Kingdom, which opened in 1971, consists of seven themed lands: Main Street USA, Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, Mickey’s Toontown Fair and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed rides and attractions, live Disney character interaction, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza, Wishes.  

Epcot — Epcot, which opened in 1982, consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through major pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology improvements, communication, energy, transportation, using your imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include the United States, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway and the United Kingdom. Both areas feature themed rides and attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also features Illuminations: Reflections of Earth, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Hollywood Studios — Disney’s Hollywood Studios, which opened in 1989, consists of four themed areas: Hollywood Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard, Animation Courtyard, and Backlot. The four areas blend together as a large movie set and provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action based on movies and TV shows. The park provides various shows, attractions, themed food service and merchandise facilities. Disney’s Hollywood Studios also features Fantasmic!, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Animal Kingdom — Disney’s Animal Kingdom, which opened in 1998, consists of a 145-foot Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Dinoland U.S.A., Africa, Rafiki’s Planet Watch, Asia, Discovery Island and Camp Minnie-Mickey. Each themed area contains adventure attractions, entertainment shows, restaurants and merchandise shops. The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of trees and plants.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — As of October 2, 2010, the Company owned and operated 17 resort hotels at the Walt Disney World Resort, with a total of approximately 22,000 rooms and 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, Disney’s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area offers approximately 800 campsites.  

The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts a 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex known as Downtown Disney, which consists of the Marketplace, West Side and Pleasure Island. Downtown Disney is home to the 51,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store featuring Disney-branded merchandise, Cirque du Soleil, the House of Blues, and the Company’s DisneyQuest facility. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company. In September 2008, the Company commenced a multi-year project to enhance Pleasure Island, which will feature new shopping and dining experiences to entertain guests of all ages.  

ESPN’s Wide World of Sports, which opened in 1997 under the name Disney’s Wide World of Sports, is a 220-acre sports complex providing professional caliber training and competition, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex’s venues accommodate multiple sporting events, including baseball, tennis, basketball, softball, track and field, football and soccer. Its stadium, which has a seating capacity of approximately 9,500, is the spring training site for MLB’s Atlanta Braves. The Amateur Athletic Union hosts more than 40 national events per year at the facility.  

In the Downtown Disney Resort area, seven independently-operated hotels are situated on property leased from the Company. These hotels include approximately 3,700 rooms. Additionally, the Walt Disney World Swan and the Walt Disney World Dolphin hotels, which have approximately 2,300 total rooms, are independently operated on property leased from the Company near Epcot.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include four championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.  

Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns 461 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 49 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment complex designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The entire Disneyland Resort is marketed as a destination resort through international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants at both of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

Disneyland — Disneyland, which opened in 1955, consists of Main Street USA and seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, New Orleans Square, Tomorrowland and Toontown. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades and a nighttime entertainment spectacular, Fantasmic!.  

Disney California Adventure — Disney California Adventure, which opened in 2001, is adjacent to Disneyland and includes four principal areas: Golden State, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, Paradise Pier and “a bug’s land”. These areas include rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disney California Adventure offers a new nighttime water spectacular, World of Color, as the first major element of the multi-year expansion that will add new entertainment and family-oriented attractions, including a Cars Land, a new 12-acre themed area, inspired by the animated film Cars.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels with a total of approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units, and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space.  

Disneyland Resort also includes Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre outdoor complex of entertainment, dining and shopping venues, located adjacent to both Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company.  

Disneyland Paris  

The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, a 5,510-acre development located in Marne-la-Vallée, approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France, which has been developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. The Company manages and has a 40% equity interest in Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity that is the holding company for Euro Disney Associés S.C.A., the primary operating company of Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries operate Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park); seven themed hotels; convention centers; a shopping, dining and entertainment complex; and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half has been developed to date, which includes the Val d’Europe development discussed below. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. is required to pay royalties and management fees to the Company based on the operating performance of the resort.  

Disneyland Park — Disneyland Park, which opened in 1992, consists of Main Street and four principal themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland and Frontierland. These areas include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Disneyland Park also features a daily parade.  

Walt Disney Studios Park — Walt Disney Studios Park opened in March 2002 adjacent to Disneyland Park. The park takes guests into the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four principal themed areas: Front Lot, Toon Studios, Production Courtyard and Backlot. These areas each include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

Hotels and Other Facilities — Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with a total of approximately 5,800 rooms and 250,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, several on-site hotels opened between 2003 and 2006 that are owned and operated by third-party developers and provide approximately 2,400 rooms.   

10  

Table of Contents 

Disneyland Paris also includes Disney Village, a seven-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex, located between the theme parks and the hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to a subsidiary of Euro Disney S.C.A.  

Val d’Europe is a planned community that is being developed near Disneyland Paris. The completed phases of the development include: a town center, which consists of a shopping center; a 150-room hotel; office, commercial, and residential space; and a regional train station. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries.  

In fiscal 2005, Euro Disney S.C.A. completed a financial restructuring, which provided for an increase in capital and refinancing of its borrowings. Pursuant to the financial restructuring, the Company agreed to conditionally and unconditionally defer certain management fees and royalties and convert them into long-term subordinated debt and provide a ten-year line of credit, with a current limit of €100 million for liquidity needs.  

In fiscal 2010, Euro Disney S.C.A signed an amendment to the master agreement entered into between the Company and French governmental authorities in 1987 for the creation and the operation of the resort. This amendment extends the duration of the agreement from 2017 to 2030. In addition, the amendment provides for updated land entitlements that allow Euro Disney S.C.A to develop, in partnership with Groupe Pierre & Vacances Center Parcs, Les Villages Nature de Val d’Europe, an innovative eco-tourism project.  

Hong Kong Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns a 47% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 53% majority interest. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.  

Located on 311 acres on Lantau Island, the resort is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and two themed hotels.  

Hong Kong Disneyland — Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005 and consists of the following themed lands: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza.  

Hotels — Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,000 rooms.  

In July 2009, the Company and the HKSAR agreed to a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong Disneyland. The expansion, which is scheduled to be completed in phases by 2014, will bring three new themed areas to Hong Kong Disneyland: Toy Story Land, Grizzly Gulch and Mystic Point. Pursuant to the plan, the Company converted a loan to Hong Kong Disneyland into equity and to date, has made additional capital contributions of $106 million and the HKSAR has contributed like amounts of capital by converting a portion of its loan to Hong Kong Disneyland into equity. This has increased the Company’s effective ownership interest from 43% to 47% as of October 2, 2010. The Company expects to make additional capital contributions over the next four years to fund the expansion of Hong Kong Disneyland. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, the Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees.  

Tokyo Disney Resort  

Tokyo Disney Resort is located on approximately 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); three Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; and a retail, dining and entertainment complex.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Tokyo Disneyland — Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983, was the first Disney theme park to open outside the United States. Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.  

Tokyo DisneySea — Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 2001. The park is divided into seven “ports of call,” including Mediterranean Harbor, American Waterfront, Port Discovery, Lost River Delta, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Arabian Coast.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — The resort includes three Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than 1,700 rooms. The resort also includes the Disney Resort Line monorail, which links theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex; Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location; as well as the first Cirque du Soleil theatre in Japan.  

The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest. OLC markets the Tokyo Disney Resort through a variety of local, domestic and international advertising and promotional activities. In addition, third parties sponsor many of the theme park attractions under long-term arrangements.  

Disney Vacation Club  

The Disney Vacation Club (DVC) offers ownership interests in 11 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort; Vero Beach, Florida; Hilton Head Island, South Carolina; and Oahu, Hawaii. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as rental property when not occupied by vacation club members. DVC inventory consists of a mix of units ranging from one bedroom studios to three bedroom villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two bedroom equivalents. DVC has 3,060 vacation club units as of October 2, 2010 and is scheduled to open an additional 481 units at Aulani, a 21-acre oceanfront resort on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The resort, which will also include 359 traditional hotel rooms, will open in phases beginning in August 2011. Vacation club presales for this property commenced in July 2010.  

Disney Cruise Line  

Disney Cruise Line, which is operated out of Port Canaveral, Florida, is a vacation cruise line that includes two 85,000-ton ships, the Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder. Both ships cater to children, families and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. Each ship features 877 staterooms, 73% of which are outside and provide guests with ocean views. Cruise vacations often include a visit to Disney’s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island.  

The Company is expanding its cruise business by adding two new ships, the Disney Dream in January 2011 and the Disney Fantasy in April 2012. The new ships will each be approximately 130,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms. The Disney Wonder will move its home to the Port of Los Angeles in 2011, to accommodate Pacific itineraries.  

Adventures by Disney  

Adventures by Disney, which began operations in 2005, offers a series of all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages at predominantly non-Disney sites around the world. The Company provided 22 specialized excursion packages during 2010.  

Walt Disney Imagineering  

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company’s operations.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices and weather patterns.  

12  

Table of Contents 

All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, the theme parks and resort business experiences fluctuations in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.  

STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT  

The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings and live stage plays.  

The Company distributes produced and acquired films (including its film and television library) in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. The primary banners for our films are Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, Pixar, Miramax and Dimension. The Company’s primary focus is Disney-branded films under the Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar banners. Each of the market windows is discussed in more detail below.  

In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with DreamWorks Studios (“DreamWorks”) to distribute live-action motion pictures produced by DreamWorks over the next seven years under the Touchstone Pictures banner. As part of the agreement, the Company will provide certain financing, which as of October 2, 2010, totaled $92 million.  

The Company has an agreement with a third-party studio to distribute the Marvel films Iron Man and Iron Man 2, which have been released, and Thor and Captain America which are still in production, and a separate agreement with another third-party studio to distribute the Marvel film The Incredible Hulk, which has also been released. Under these arrangements, the Company incurs the cost to produce the films and pays a fee to the third party studio to distribute the film. Beginning with The Avengers, which is scheduled for release in 2012, the Company intends to distribute all Marvel produced films. The Company recently purchased the distribution rights for The Avengers and Iron Man 3 from a third party studio and will pay certain fees to that studio associated with the performance of those films, subject to a minimum guarantee.  

The Company has also licensed the rights to produce and distribute feature films for certain other Marvel properties including Spider-Man, The Fantastic Four, and X-Men to third-party studios. Under these licensing arrangements, the third-party studio incurs the cost to produce and distribute the films and pays the Company a licensing fee.  

On July 29, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the majority of the assets of Miramax Film Corp. (Miramax) for $663 million, subject to closing conditions and adjustments. The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar 2010. The sale includes both Miramax and Dimension film assets.  

Theatrical Market  

During fiscal 2011, we expect to distribute domestically approximately 14 feature films. These releases include several live-action family films and full-length animated films, with the remainder targeted to teenagers and/or adults. As of October 2, 2010, the Company had released domestically 962 full-length live-action features, 88 full-length animated features, approximately 549 cartoon shorts and 53 live action shorts.  

We distribute and market our filmed products principally through our own distribution and marketing companies in the U.S. theatrical market. In the international theatrical markets, we distribute our filmed products both directly and through independent distribution companies or joint ventures. Films released theatrically in the U.S. can be released simultaneously in international territories or generally up to four months later.  

The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public’s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred;  

13  

Table of Contents 

 therefore, we typically incur losses on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film.  

Home Entertainment Market  

In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In the international market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of our motion picture banners both directly and through independent foreign distribution companies. In addition, we acquire and produce original content for direct-to-video release.  

The domestic and international home entertainment window typically starts four to six months after the theatrical release in each market. The home entertainment releases may be distributed in both physical (DVD and Blu-Ray) and electronic versions. Most titles are sold simultaneously to both retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy, and “rentailers,” such as Blockbuster, Redbox and Netflix.  

As of October 2, 2010, we had approximately 1,800 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,400 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,700 active produced and acquired titles, including 2,200 live-action titles and 500 animated titles, in the international marketplace.  

Television Market  

Pay-Per-View (PPV)/Video-on-Demand (VOD): Concurrently with, or up to two months after, the home entertainment window begins, the studio’s television distributors, Disney-ABC Domestic Television and Disney Media Distribution, license titles for use on a PPV/VOD basis, as well as for internet, console games, and mobile platforms. PPV/VOD services deliver one-time rentals electronically to consumers at a price comparable to that of physical media rentals.  

Pay Television (Pay 1): There are generally two pay television windows. The first window is generally sixteen months in duration and follows the PPV/VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive domestic pay television rights to substantially all films released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, and Touchstone Pictures banners to the Starz pay television service through fiscal 2016. Miramax theatrical releases through calendar year 2008 were licensed under the Starz agreement. In 2010, the Company negotiated a new license with Showtime for selected Miramax films with theatrical release dates beginning calendar year 2009 through the first six months of calendar year 2011.  

Free Television (Free 1): The Pay 1 window is followed by a television window with telecasts accessible to consumers without charge. This free window may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window on an ad-hoc basis to major networks, including the ABC Television Network, and basic cable services.  

Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2): In the U.S., Free 1 is generally followed by a fourteen-month Pay 2 window under our license arrangement with Starz, and finally by a Free 2 window. The Free 2 window is a syndication window where films are licensed both to basic cable networks and to third-party television station groups. Major packages of the Company’s feature films have been licensed for broadcast under multi-year agreements.  

International Television: The Company also licenses its theatrical and television properties outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is broadly consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles premiere on television in PPV/VOD then air in pay TV before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by country.  

Disney Music Group  

The Disney Music Group includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records (including the Mammoth Records and Buena Vista Records labels), Lyric Street Records, Buena Vista Concerts and Disney Music Publishing.  

Walt Disney Records produces and distributes compact discs and music DVDs in the United States and licenses our music properties throughout the rest of the world. Music categories include infant, children’s read-along, teens, all-family and soundtracks from film and television series distributed by Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Channel. Hollywood Records develops, produces and markets recordings from talent across a spectrum of popular music. In April 2010, the Company announced that it will close Lyric Street Records. However, the Company will continue to distribute catalog titles under the Lyric Street Records label.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Each of the labels commissions new music for the Company’s motion picture and television programs, records the songs and licenses the song copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution. Buena Vista Concerts produces live-entertainment events with artists signed to the Disney Music Group record labels.  

Disney Music Publishing controls the copyrights of thousands of musical compositions derived from the Company’s motion picture, television, record and theme park properties, as well as musical compositions written by songwriters under exclusive contract. It is responsible for the management, protection, and licensing of the Disney song catalog on a worldwide basis, including licensing for printed music, records, audio-visual works and new media.  

Disney Theatrical Productions  

Disney Theatrical Productions develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events. The Company has produced and licensed Broadway musicals around the world, including Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), TARZAN®, the professional touring stage version of High School Musical, and The Little Mermaid. In addition, the Company licenses musicals for local school and community theatre productions.  

Disney Theatrical Productions also delivers live shows globally through its license to Feld Entertainment, producer of Disney On Ice and Disney Live!. Disney On Ice’s newest ice show, Toy Story 3, launched in September 2010 for a North America tour. Mickey’s Musical Festival, the latest from Disney’s Live!, was launched in September 2010.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television programming services and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.  

The success of Studio Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.  

CONSUMER PRODUCTS  

The Consumer Products segment engages with licensees, manufacturers, publishers and retailers throughout the world to design, develop, publish, promote and sell a wide variety of products based on existing and new characters and other Company intellectual property through its Merchandise Licensing, Publishing and Retail businesses. In addition to leveraging the Company’s film and television properties, Consumer Products also develops new intellectual property with the potential of also being used in the Company’s other businesses.  

Merchandise Licensing  

The Company’s worldwide merchandise licensing operations include a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, home décor and furnishings, stationery, accessories, health and beauty, food, footwear, and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include Mickey Mouse, Disney Princess, Toy Story, Winnie the Pooh, Cars, Disney Fairies, Hannah Montana and the Marvel properties including Spider-Man and Iron Man. The Company also designs individual products and creates exclusive themed and seasonal promotional campaigns for retailers based on characters, movies and TV shows.  

Publishing  

Disney Publishing Worldwide (DPW) publishes children’s books and magazines in multiple countries and languages. DPW’s businesses include Disney Global Books, Disney Global Magazines and Disney English. In fiscal 2010, Disney Global Books (DGB) published titles around the world in support of such franchises as Mickey Mouse, Disney Princess, Winnie the Pooh, Cars, Disney Fairies and Toy Story. DGB has extended its publishing content into new digital books,  

15  

Table of Contents 

 comics and applications, including applications for the Toy Story films and The Princess and the Frog. Disney Global Magazines issues Disney FamilyFun magazine in the United States. Disney English operates 15 English language learning centers in Shanghai and Beijing, offering more than 500 hours of classroom programming for more than 7,000 young children. DPW also includes publishing revenues from the sale of Marvel comic books.  

Retail  

The Company markets Disney-themed products directly through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name and through internet sites in North America (DisneyStore.com and DisneyOutlet.com), the United Kingdom (DisneyStore.co.uk) and Japan (DisneyStore.co.jp). The stores, which are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes, carry a wide variety of Disney merchandise and promote other businesses of the Company. On March 31, 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Retail Networks Company Limited, which operates The Disney Store Japan, and terminated its existing licensing arrangement with Retail Networks Company Limited. The Company currently owns and operates 211 stores in North America, 104 stores in Europe, and 48 stores in Japan.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s merchandise licensing, publishing and retail businesses compete with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. Based on independent surveys, we believe the Company is the largest worldwide licensor of character-based merchandise based on retail sales. Operating results for the licensing and retail businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and performance of animated theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.  

INTERACTIVE MEDIA  

The Disney Interactive Media Group creates and delivers Disney-branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media platforms. The primary operating businesses of the Disney Interactive Media Group are Games which produces multi-platform games for global distribution, and Online which produces internet websites in the United States and internationally. The Disney Interactive Media Group derives revenues from a combination of wholesale sales, licensing, advertising, sponsorships, subscription services and online game accessories (micro transactions). The Disney Interactive Media Group also manages the Company’s Disney-branded mobile phone business in Japan which provides mobile phone service and content to consumers.  

Games  

The Games business creates, develops, markets and distributes console, handheld, online and mobile games worldwide based on properties created elsewhere in the Company, including 2010 titles such as Toy Story 3, Alice in Wonderland and The Princess and the Frog, as well as new game properties such as Split Second. The Games business also produces online games, such as Disney’s Club Penguin and Disney Fairies Pixie Hollow, interactive games for social networking websites and games for smartphone platforms. Certain properties are also licensed to third-party video game publishers including an agreement with THQ, Inc. that includes one remaining Pixar title.  

On August 27, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Playdom, Inc., a company that develops and publishes online games for social networking websites.  

Online  

Online develops, publishes and distributes content for Disney-branded online services intended for family entertainment. Disney Online produces kids and family-targeted entertainment through a portfolio of websites including Disney.com and the Disney Family Network. Disney.com integrates many of the Company’s Disney-branded internet sites including sites for the Disney Channel, Disney Parks and Resorts, Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Consumer Products.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s online sites and products compete with a wide variety of other online sites and products. The Company’s video game business competes primarily with other publishers of video game software and other types of home entertainment. Operating results for the video game business fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game  

16  

Table of Contents 

 releases which are determined by several factors including theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of holiday periods. Revenues from certain of the Company’s online and mobile operations are subject to similar seasonal trends.  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION  

The Company’s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in Item 1A – Risk Factors.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report.  

 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors