ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The risk factors that follow relate in each case to SCANA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company), and where indicated the risk factors also relate to South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and its consolidated affiliates (SCE&G). 

Commodity price changes, delays and other factors may affect the operating cost, capital expenditures and competitive positions of the Company's and SCE&G's energy businesses, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Our energy businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices and availability. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers' bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. In the case of regulated natural gas operations, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers' bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and, therefore, the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Increases in gas costs may also result in lower usage by customers unable to switch to alternate fuels. 

Additionally, the Company and SCE&G anticipate significant capital expenditures for environmental compliance and baseload generation in order to meet future usage demands. The cost of additional baseload generation may be affected by the choice of technology or fuel related to such generation, each of which may be driven by environmental and other non-economic factors. The completion of these projects within established budgets and timeframes is contingent upon many variables including the obtaining of permits and licenses in a timely manner and our timely securing of labor and materials at estimated costs. Recently, certain construction commodities such as steel and concrete have experienced significant price increases due to worldwide demand. Also, to operate our air pollution control equipment, we use significant quantities of ammonia and lime. With mandated compliance deadlines for air pollution controls, demand for these reagents may increase and result in higher purchase costs. Also, higher worldwide demand for copper, which we use in our transmission and distribution lines, has led to significant price increases. Our ability to maintain our operations or to complete construction projects and new baseload generation (whether based on nuclear or another form of generation) at reasonable cost, if at all, could be adversely affected by increases in worldwide demand for key parts or commodities, increases in the price of or the unavailability of labor, commodities or other materials, increases in lead times for components, increased environmental pressures, a failure in the supply chain (whether resulting from the foregoing or other factors) or delays in licensing, siting, design, financing or construction. To the extent that delays occur or cost overages are not recoverable, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be diminished. 

The Company and SCE&G do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The Company and SCE&G attempt to manage commodity price exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). We do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility or our hedges are not effective, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be diminished. 

Changing and complex laws and regulations to which the Company and SCE&G are subject could adversely affect revenues or increase costs or curtail activities, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The Company and SCE&G must comply with extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Such regulation widely affects the operation of our business. The effects encompass, among many other aspects of our business, the licensing and siting of facilities, safety, reliability of our transmission system, physical and cyber security of key assets, information privacy, the issuance of securities, financial reporting, interaction among affiliates, and the payment of dividends. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s or SCE&G’s business. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to extensive rate regulation which could adversely affect operations. In particular, SCE&G's electric operations in South Carolina and the Company's gas distribution operations in South Carolina (comprised of SCE&G) and North Carolina are regulated by state utilities commissions. The Company’s interstate gas pipeline is subject to federal oversight. Our gas marketing operations in Georgia are also subject to state regulatory oversight. There can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve. Although we believe we have constructive relationships with our regulators, our ability to obtain rate increases that will allow us to maintain reasonable rates of return is dependent upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement rate increases when sought. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including air emissions (such as reducing nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, or potential future control of greenhouse gas emissions). Compliance with these laws and regulations requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and are expected to increase in the future. Changes in compliance requirements or a more burdensome interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our activities. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could harm our industry, our business and our results of operations and financial position, especially if emission or discharge limits are reduced, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed or additional regulatory requirements are imposed. 

The Company and SCE&G are vulnerable to interest rate increases which would increase our borrowing costs, and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all, both of which may adversely affect results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Changes in interest rates can affect the cost of borrowing on variable rate debt outstanding, on refinancing of debt maturities and on incremental borrowing to fund new investments. The Company's and SCE&G’s business plans reflect the expectation that we will have access to the capital markets on satisfactory terms to fund commitments. Moreover, the ability to maintain short-term liquidity by utilizing commercial paper programs is dependent upon maintaining investment grade debt ratings. The liquidity of the Company and SCE&G would be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in the commercial paper market or if bank credit facilities became unavailable at acceptable rates. 

SCANA may not be able to maintain its leverage ratio at a level considered appropriate by debt rating agencies. This could result in downgrades of SCANA's debt ratings, thereby increasing its borrowing costs and adversely affecting its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

SCANA's leverage ratio of debt to capital increased significantly following its acquisition in 2000 of PSNC Energy, and was approximately 55% at December 31, 2007. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to maintain this leverage ratio at 54% to 55%, but SCANA's ability to do so depends on a number of factors. If SCANA is not able to maintain its leverage ratio, SCANA's debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. 

A downgrade in the credit rating of SCANA or any of SCANA’s subsidiaries, including SCE&G, could negatively affect their ability to access capital and to operate their businesses, thereby adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) rate SCANA's long-term senior unsecured debt at BBB+, Baa1 and A-, respectively. S&P, Moody's and Fitch rate SCE&G's long-term senior secured debt at A-, A2 and A+, respectively. S&P, Moody’s and Fitch rate PSNC Energy's long-term senior unsecured debt at A-, A3 and A, respectively. Moody’s and Fitch carry a stable outlook on each of their ratings. S&P carries a negative outlook on each of its ratings. If S&P, Moody's or Fitch were to downgrade any of these long-term ratings, particularly to below investment grade, borrowing costs would increase, which would diminish financial results, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. S&P, Moody's and Fitch rate the short-term debt of SCE&G and PSNC Energy at A-2, P-2 and F-1, respectively. If these short-term ratings were to decline, it could significantly limit access to the commercial paper market and other sources of liquidity. 

Operating results may be adversely affected by abnormal weather. 

The Company and SCE&G have historically sold less power, delivered less gas and received lower prices for natural gas in deregulated markets, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions have been milder than normal. Mild weather in the future could diminish the revenues and results of operations and harm the financial condition of the Company and SCE&G. In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage, adversely affecting operating expenses and revenues. 

Table of Contents  

Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our gas and electricity businesses due to the loss of customers, reductions in revenues, or write-down of stranded assets. 

The utility industry has been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric and natural gas utility companies. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have also mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of utility earnings generally and may in the future reduce earnings from retail electric and natural gas sales. In a deregulated environment, formerly regulated utility companies that are not responsive to a competitive energy marketplace may suffer erosion in market share, revenues and profits as competitors gain access to their customers. In addition, SCANA's and SCE&G's generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risk in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write-down in the value of the related assets would be required. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to risks associated with changes in business climate which could increase and adversely affect revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could limit access to capital. 

Sales and sales growth is dependent upon the economic climate in the service territories of the Company and SCE&G, which may be affected by regional, national or even international economic factors. Some economic sectors important to our customer base may be particularly affected. Adverse events, economic or otherwise, may also affect the operations of key customers. Such events may result in the failure of customers to make timely payments to us. The success of local and state governments in attracting new industry to our service territories is important to our sales and growth in sales. 

Factors that generally could affect our ability to access capital include economic conditions and our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. 

Problems with operations could cause us to curtail or limit our ability to serve customers or cause us to incur substantial costs, thereby adversely impacting revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Critical processes or systems in the Company’s or SCE&G’s operations could become impaired or fail from a variety of causes, such as equipment breakdown, transmission line failure, information systems failure or security breach, the effects of drought (including reduced water levels) on the operation of emission control or other generation equipment, and the effects of a pandemic or terrorist attack on our workforce or on the ability of vendors and suppliers to maintain services key to our operations.  

In particular, as the operator of power generation facilities, SCE&G could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation or emission control equipment, transmission lines, other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. In addition, any such breakdown or failure may result in SCE&G purchasing replacement power at market rates, if such replacement power is available at all. If replacement power is not available, such problems could result in interruptions of service (blackout or brownout conditions) in all or part of SCE&G’s territory or elsewhere in the region. These purchases are subject to state regulatory prudency reviews for recovery through rates. 

Covenants in certain financial instruments may limit SCANA's ability to pay dividends, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of our common stock and our access to capital. 

Our assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Dividends on our common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition and capital requirements of our subsidiaries, principally SCE&G, PSNC Energy and SEMI. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited by existing or future covenants limiting the right of our subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Any significant reduction in our payment of dividends in the future may result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Such a decline in value could limit our ability to raise debt and equity capital. 

A significant portion of SCE&G's generating capacity is derived from nuclear power, the use of which exposes us to regulatory, environmental and business risks. These risks could increase our costs or otherwise constrain our business, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The V.C. Summer nuclear plant, operated by SCE&G, provided approximately 5.7 million MWh, or 21% of our generation capacity, in 2007. As such, SCE&G is subject to various risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: 

The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; 

Table of Contents  

Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; 

Uncertainties with respect to procurement of enriched uranium fuel; 

Uncertainties with respect to contingencies if insurance coverage is inadequate; and 

Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their operating lives. 

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident, if a major incident should occur at a domestic nuclear facility, it could harm our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Finally, in today's environment, there is a heightened risk of terrorist attack on the nation's nuclear facilities, which has resulted in increased security costs at our nuclear plant. 

Failure to retain and attract key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s and SCE&G’s operations and financial performance. 

Implementation of our strategic plan and growth strategy requires that we attract, retain and develop executive officers and other professional and technical employees with the skills and experience necessary to successfully manage our operations and grow our business. Competition for these employees is high, and in some cases we must compete for these employees on a regional or national basis. We may be unable to attract and retain these personnel. Further, the Company’s or SCE&G’s ability to construct or maintain generation or other assets requires the availability of suitable skilled contractor personnel. We may be unable to obtain appropriate contractor personnel at the times and places needed. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to the risk that strategic decisions made by us either do not result in a return of or on invested capital or might negatively impact our competitive position, which can adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, financial position, and access to capital. 

From time to time, the Company and SCE&G make strategic decisions that may impact our direction with regard to business opportunities, the services and technologies offered to customers or that are used to serve customers, and the generating plant and other infrastructure that form the basis of much of our business. These strategic decisions may not result in a return of or on our invested capital, and the effects of these strategic decisions may have long-term implications that are not likely to be known to us in the short-term. Changing political climates and public attitudes may adversely affect the ongoing acceptability of strategic decisions that have been made, to the detriment of the Company or SCE&G. Over time, these strategic decisions or changing attitudes toward such decisions, which could be adverse to the Company’s or SCE&G’s interests, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, as well as limit our ability to access capital. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to the reputational risks that may result from a failure of their adherence to high standards of compliance with laws and regulations, ethical conduct, operational effectiveness, and safety of employees, customers and the public. These risks could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and the Company’s and SCE&G’s access to capital. 

The Company and SCE&G are committed to comply with all laws and regulations, to focus on the safety of employees, customers and the public and to maintain the privacy of information related to our customers and employees. The Company and SCE&G also are committed to operational excellence and, through their Code of Conduct and Ethics, to maintain high standards of ethical conduct in their business operations. A failure to meet these commitments may subject the Company and SCE&G, not only to litigation, but also to reputational risk that could adversely affect the valuation of SCANA’s stock, adversely affect the Company’s and SCE&G’s access to capital, and result in further regulatory oversight. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES