ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS 

OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW 

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in parts of South Carolina and the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast. Other wholly owned nonregulated subsidiaries provide fiber optic and other telecommunications services and provide service contracts to homeowners on certain home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. Additionally, a service company subsidiary of SCANA provides administrative, management and other services to the other subsidiaries. 

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conducted their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

Table of Contents  

The following percentages reflect revenues and net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) In 2007, revenues reflects the change in business model in the Gas Transmission segment. See Results of Operations for more information. 

 (b) In 2006, net income for non-regulated businesses included a reduction of an accrual related to certain litigation associated with the Company’s prior sale of its propane assets upon the settlement of that litigation. See Results of Operations for more information. 

Key earnings drivers for the Company over the next five years will be additions to rate base at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation (CGTC) and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (PSNC Energy), consisting primarily of capital expenditures for environmental facilities, new generating capacity and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth in each of the regulated utility businesses, consistent earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and controlling the growth of operation and maintenance expenses. 

Electric Operations 

The electric operations segment is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, South Carolina Generating Company, Inc. (GENCO) and South Carolina Fuel Company, Inc. (Fuel Company), and is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina. At December 31, 2007 SCE&G provided electricity to 639,300 customers in an area covering nearly 16,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generation station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G’s nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowance requirements. 

Operating results for electric operations are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, the ability to control costs and rates allowed to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity may not exceed 11.0%, with rates set at 10.7%. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers' bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. 

Legislative and regulatory initiatives, including the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the “Energy Policy Act”) also could significantly impact the results of operations and cash flows for the electric operations segment. The Energy Policy Act became law in August 2005, and it provided, among other things, for the establishment of an electric reliability organization (ERO) to propose and enforce mandatory reliability standards for transmission systems and for procedures governing enforcement actions by the ERO and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  

Consistent with reliability provisions of the Energy Policy Act, on July 20, 2006, FERC issued a final rule certifying the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) as the ERO. On March 16, 2007, FERC issued a final rule establishing mandatory, enforceable reliability standards for the nation’s bulk power system. In the final rule, FERC approved 83 of the 107 mandatory reliability standards submitted by the NERC and compliance with these standards became mandatory on June 18, 2007. FERC has subsequently approved 8 critical infrastructure protection standards which are mandatory and enforceable. The Company cannot predict when or if FERC will advance other regulatory initiatives related to the national energy market or what conditions such initiatives would impose on utilities. 

New legislation may also impose stringent requirements on power plants to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. It is also possible that new initiatives will be introduced to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted, and if it is, the conditions it would impose on utilities. 

Gas Distribution 

The gas distribution segment is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy, and is primarily engaged in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas to retail customers in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. At December 31, 2007 this segment provided natural gas to 759,700 customers in areas covering 35,000 square miles. 

Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. 

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and, for commercial and industrial customers, the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. Significant supply disruptions occurred in September and October 2005 as a result of hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, resulting in the curtailment during the period of most large commercial and industrial customers with interruptible supply agreements. While supply disruptions were not experienced in 2007 or 2006, the price of natural gas remains volatile and has resulted in short-term competitive pressure. The long-term impact of volatile gas prices and gas supply has not been determined. 

Gas Transmission 

CGTC operates an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by FERC. CGTC’s operating results are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Demand for CGTC’s services is closely linked to demand for natural gas and is affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. CGTC provides transportation services to SCE&G for its gas distribution customers and for certain electric generation needs and to SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc. (SEMI) for natural gas marketing. CGTC also provides transportation services to other natural gas utilities, municipalities and county gas authorities and to industrial customers. 

Effective November 1, 2006 SCG Pipeline merged into South Carolina Pipeline Corporation (SCPC) and the merged company changed its name to Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation. Prior to the merger, the gas transmission segment was comprised solely of SCPC, which owned and operated an intrastate pipeline engaged in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas on a wholesale basis to distribution companies (including SCE&G) and industrial customers throughout most of South Carolina. SCPC’s operating results were primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. 

Retail Gas Marketing 

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, comprises the retail gas marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas to over 475,000 customers (as of December 31, 2007) throughout Georgia. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents over a 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. SCANA Energy’s competitors include affiliates of other large energy companies with experience in Georgia’s energy market as well as several electric membership cooperatives. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors, its ability to continue to provide high levels of customer service and other factors. 

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy serves low-income customers and customers unable to obtain or maintain natural gas service from other marketers at rates approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC), and it receives funding from the Universal Service Fund for some of the bad debt associated with the low-income group. SCANA Energy’s service as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas ends August 31, 2009. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us. At December 31, 2007, SCANA Energy’s regulated division served over 95,000 customers.

Table of Contents  

SCANA Energy and SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and also utilize forward contracts and financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. Since SCANA Energy operates in a competitive market, it may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and/or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. Further, there can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve. 

In February 2008 the consumer affairs staff (the staff) of the GPSC alleged to the GPSC that SCANA Energy and the state's largest natural gas marketer (the marketers) had overcharged certain of their respective customers. The staff alleges that the marketers failed to inform customers with more expensive rate plans that a lower rate plan was available, charged customers in excess of the published price, and failed to give proper notice of a change in methodology for computing variable rates. SCANA Energy believes it complied with all applicable rules and regulations, that none of its customers were treated unfairly, and that all requests it received from customers to be switched to a lower rate plan were honored. SCANA Energy has responded that these types of pricing plans exist in many deregulated markets, such as telecommunications, and are a natural development in a competitive environment. The GPSC has indicated that it may launch a formal investigation into the matter, and is expected to rule on the matter on March 4, 2008. Separately, without admitting fault, the other marketer has offered to settle the matter before the GPSC by agreeing to improve communications and to pay $1 million to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. SCANA Energy is currently in discussions with the GPSC to settle the matter. While the Company cannot determine the final outcome, it believes that a resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 

On February 26, 2008, a purported class action was filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, styled Weiskircher, et al. v. SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc., containing similar allegations to those alleged by the staff and seeking damages on behalf of a class of Georgia customers. SCANA Energy has not been served with this lawsuit and has not yet had the opportunity to evaluate it. 

Energy Marketing 

The divisions of SEMI, excluding SCANA Energy (Energy Marketing), comprise the energy marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services to customers. 

The operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control costs. Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is tied to the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The Company’s reported earnings are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, the Company’s GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of its fundamental earnings power and can aid in performance period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In management’s opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Company’s primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for management’s provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it. A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations per share is provided in the table below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Discussion of above adjustments: 

The cumulative effect of an accounting change resulted from the Company’s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123(R)). The reduction in charge related to propane litigation resulted from litigation arising from the prior sale of the Company’s propane business being settled for an amount that was less than had been accrued previously. This reduction appears in the income statement as a reduction to other expenses. Realized gains in 2005 were recognized on sales of telecommunications investments. 

Management believes that these adjustments are appropriate in determining the non-GAAP financial performance measure. Management utilizes such measure in exercising budgetary control, managing business operations and determining eligibility for certain incentive compensation payments. The non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations, provides a consistent basis upon which to measure performance by excluding the cumulative effect on per share earnings of the accounting change resulting from the Company’s adoption of SFAS 123(R), the effect on per share earnings of transactions involving the Company’s telecommunications investments and of litigation related to the sale of a prior business. 

Pension Income 

Pension income was recorded on the Company’s financial statements as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

For the last several years, the market value of the Company’s retirement plan (pension) assets has exceeded the total actuarial present value of accumulated plan benefits. Among the reasons income in 2007 was higher than income in 2006 was favorable asset investment experience. Among the reasons 2006’s income was lower than 2005’s was a reduction of the assumed rate of return on plan assets from 9.25% to 9%. See also the discussion of pension accounting in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) 

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 3.3% of income before income taxes in 2007, 2.0% in 2006 and 1.4% in 2005. 

Electric Operations 

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Margin increased by $27.3 million due to customer growth and usage and due to other electric revenue of $5.2 million. These increases were offset by lower off-system sales of $10.2 million.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Margin decreased by $20.8 million due to unfavorable weather, by $16.0 million due to decreased off-system sales and by $6.5 million due to lower industrial sales. These decreases were offset by residential and commercial customer growth of $26.5 million. Purchased power cost decreased due to lower volumes.     

Table of Contents  

Megawatt hour (MWh) sales volumes related to the electric margin above by class were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Territorial sales volumes increased by 343 MWh primarily due to residential and commercial customer growth and by 83 MWh due to higher industrial sales volumes.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Territorial sales volumes decreased by 307 MWh due to lower industrial sales volumes and by 406 MWh due to unfavorable weather. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of 408 MWh due to residential and commercial customer growth.     

Gas Distribution 

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas distribution sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Margin increased by $13.6 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates at SCE&G which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2006, by $1.0 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2007, and by $6.1 million due to other customer growth at SCE&G. The NCUC - approved rate increase at PSNC Energy, for services rendered on or after November 1, 2006, increased margin by $14.3 million. The increase in margin at PSNC Energy also reflects customer growth in 2007 and significant conservation in 2006 due to high natural gas prices.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Margin increased by $17.5 million due to increased retail gas base rates which became effective with the first billing cycle in November 2005 and by $4.0 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates effective with the first billing cycle in November 2006. These increases were offset by $4.0 million due to lower firm margin resulting from customer conservation at SCE&G. The NCUC-approved rate increase at PSNC Energy, for services rendered on or after November 1, 2006, increased margin by $2.4 million, but was offset primarily by customer conservation.     

Dekatherm (DT) sales volumes by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Residential, commercial and transportation gas sales volumes increased primarily due to customer growth.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Residential and commercial sales volumes decreased primarily due to milder weather and conservation. Transportation sales volumes increased primarily due to interruptible customers using gas instead of alternate fuels.     

Gas Transmission 

Gas Transmission is comprised of the operations of CGTC and, for periods prior to the November 2006 merger and name change, SCPC and SCG Pipeline for all periods presented. Gas transmission sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

*Change not meaningful due to change to a transportation only business model. 

  •   2007 vs 2006   Transportation revenue increased as a result of the change to an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company effective November 1, 2006. As a result of this change, CGTC no longer earns commodity gas revenues nor does it incur gas costs.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Margin increased by $6.2 million due to increased transportation capacity charges (as a result of the merger discussed previously in the Overview section) and by $1.4 million due to higher interruptible transportation revenues, offset by $1.8 million due to decreased firm sales capacity charges and by $4.5 million due to lower industrial margins.     

DT sales volumes by class, including transportation, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

*Change not meaningful due to change in business model. 

  •   2007 vs 2006   Transportation volumes increased as a result of the change to an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company effective November 1, 2006.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Prior to the merger on November 1, 2006, industrial volumes decreased primarily due to higher commodity gas prices relative to alternate fuels. Subsequent to the merger, CGTC operates as a transportation-only interstate pipeline company.     

Retail Gas Marketing 

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Operating revenues decreased primarily due to lower average retail prices. Net income decreased primarily due to higher expenses, including bad debt expense.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Operating revenues decreased primarily due to milder weather and customer conservation, resulting in lower customer usage, which was partially offset by higher average retail prices arising from higher commodity gas costs. Net income increased primarily due to decreased bad debt of $9.0 million and lower operating and customer service expenses of $6.2 million, partially offset by a margin decrease of $9.1 million, net of taxes.     

Delivered volumes totaled 34.1 million DT in 2007, 33.6 million DT in 2006 and 37.9 million DT in 2005. 

Energy Marketing 

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income (loss) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

*Greater than 100%. 

  •   2007 vs 2006   Operating revenues increased primarily due to customer growth, some of which results from sales to customers formerly reported in the Gas Transmission segment now being reported in Energy Marketing. Net income increased due to higher margin on sales of $3.8 million, offset by higher operating expenses of $1.0 million.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Operating revenues increased due primarily to higher sales volume. Net loss decreased due to lower operating expenses of $1.0 million, offset by lower margin on sales of $0.9 million.     

Delivered volumes totaled 154.9 million DT in 2007, 123.9 million DT in 2006 and 101.0 million DT in 2005. Delivered volumes increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of customer growth, including sales to customers formerly reported in the Gas Transmission segment. Delivered volumes increased in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily as a result of increased service to electric generation facilities and municipalities in Georgia and South Carolina.  

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses arising from the operating segments previously discussed were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Other operation and maintenance expenses increased by $4.6 million due to higher generation, transmission and distribution expenses, by $19.7 million due to higher incentive compensation and other benefits and by $4.7 million due to higher bad debt expense at Retail Gas Marketing. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $19.8 million due to lower accelerated depreciation of the back-up dam at Lake Murray in 2007 compared to 2006 (see Income Taxes - Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits), partially offset by $11.4 million due to net property additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes.     

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Table of Contents  

Other Income (Expense) 

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental (non-utility) activities and the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries. Other income (expense) declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to lower royalties earned in connection with the operation by a former subsidiary of a synthetic fuel plant. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

* Greater than 100% 

  •   2007 vs 2006   

Other revenues decreased by $32.0 million due to lower power marketing activities and by $26.6 million due to lower fees received for management and maintenance services for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility, as discussed at Income Taxes-Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below. These decreases were partially offset by $5.8 million of interest income related to the sale of a bankruptcy claim and by $1.9 million due to lower partnership losses, also as discussed at Income Taxes- Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below. 

Other expenses decreased $31.2 million due to lower power marketing activities, by $19.4 million due to lower management service expenses incurred, as discussed at Income Taxes-Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below and by $8.7 million related to a FERC power marketing settlement in 2006. These decreases were partially offset by $7.6 million related to the settlement of propane litigation in 2006.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   

Other revenues decreased $91.5 million due to lower power marketing activities, $10.8 million due to the termination of a contract to operate a steam combustion turbine at the United States Department of Energy (DOE) Savannah River Site and by $4.3 million due to lower carrying costs recognized on the unrecovered balance of the Lake Murray back-up dam project and lower management service fees of $10.0 million, as discussed at Income Taxes - Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below. These decreases were partially offset by higher interest income of $9.4 million and higher third-party coal sales revenue of $4.8 million. 

Other expenses decreased by $90.6 million due to lower power marketing activities and $4.4 million due to the termination of the DOE’s Savannah River Site contract. These decreases were partially offset by increased charges in 2006 of $8.7 million related to the settlement of the FERC power marketing matter and higher expenses to support third-party coal sales of $3.6 million.     

Interest Expense 

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Interest on long-term debt in 2007 compared to 2006 decreased primarily due to reduced long-term borrowings and lower interest rates. Other interest expense increased primarily due to higher principal balances and interest rates on short-term debt.     

  •   2006 vs 2005   Interest on long-term debt decreased primarily due to reduced long-term borrowings, partially offset by increased variable rates. Other interest expense increased primarily due to increased short-term borrowings.     

Table of Contents  

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense increased primarily due to the recognition at SCE&G of $17.4 million in synthetic fuel tax credits during 2007 compared to $33.5 million during 2006 and due to changes in operating income.  

Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits 

SCE&G holds equity-method investments in two partnerships involved in converting coal to synthetic fuel, the use of which fuel qualifies for federal income tax credits. Under an accounting methodology approved by the SCPSC in a January 2005 order, construction costs related to the Lake Murray back-up dam project are recorded in utility plant in service in a special dam remediation account, outside of rate base, and depreciation is being recognized against the balance in this account on an accelerated basis, subject to the availability of the synthetic fuel tax credits. The synthetic fuel tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. 

The level of depreciation expense and related tax benefit recognized in the income statement is equal to the available synthetic fuel tax credits, less partnership losses and other expenses, net of taxes. As a result, the balance of unrecovered costs in the dam remediation account declines as accelerated depreciation is recorded. Although these entries collectively have no impact on consolidated net income, they can have a significant impact on individual line items within the income statement. In addition, SCE&G records non-cash carrying costs on the unrecovered investment. The accelerated depreciation, synthetic fuel tax credits, partnership losses and the income tax benefit arising from such losses recognized by SCE&G during 2007 and 2006 are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The 2007 amounts are estimates based on preliminary benchmark information and reflect the likelihood that credits available in 2007 will be phased down pursuant to regulations which limit the credits based on the relative commodity price of crude oil. Amounts in 2005 reflect the recognition of previously deferred tax credits. See discussion below. 

The availability of the synthetic fuel tax credits is dependent on the average annual domestic wellhead price per barrel of crude oil as published by the U.S. Government. Under a phase-out provision included in the program, if the domestic wellhead reference price of oil per barrel for a given year is below an inflation-adjusted benchmark range for that year, all of the synthetic fuel tax credits that have been generated in that year would be available for use. If that price is above the benchmark range, none of the tax credits would be available. If that price falls within the benchmark range, a calculated portion of the credits would be available. 

The benchmark price range for 2006 resulted in a phase-out of 33% for 2006. SCE&G’s analysis indicates that the available synthetic fuel tax credits for 2007 also are likely to be impacted by the phase-out calculation. As such, in 2007 the Company recorded synthetic fuel tax credits and applied those credits to allow the recording of accelerated depreciation related to the balance in the dam remediation project account based on an estimate that only 32.7% of credits generated in 2007 will be available (phase-out of 67.3%). The U. S. Government is expected to publish the benchmark price range for 2007 in the second quarter of 2008, after which the Company will finalize its estimate of available credits. 

The Company does not expect available credits to be sufficient to fully recover the construction costs of dam remediation. To the extent that available credits are not sufficient to fully recover the construction costs of the dam remediation, regulatory action to allow recovery of those remaining costs will likely be sought. As of December 31, 2007, remaining unrecovered costs, based on management’s recording of accelerated depreciation and related tax benefits, were $68.4 million. The Company expects these costs to be recoverable through rates.

Table of Contents  

Finally, SCANA, through a subsidiary, provided management and maintenance services for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility. Reduced synthetic fuel tax credit availability under the above phase-out provisions also adversely impacted the level of payment SCANA received for these services. These services ceased on December 31, 2007, concurrent with the expiration of the synthetic fuel tax credit program. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, if requested. 

SCE&G expects to add additional base load electric generation in the 2015 to 2016 timeframe. Based on an evaluation of alternatives, SCE&G and Santee Cooper, a state-owned utility in South Carolina (joint owners of Summer Station) have selected the Summer Station site as the preferred site if new nuclear generation is built. Due to the significant lead time required for construction of nuclear generation, the joint owners are preparing an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for a combined construction and operating license (COL) that would cover two new nuclear units. The COL application, if submitted, would be reviewed by the NRC for an estimated three years. SCE&G is uncertain if or when a COL would be submitted to the NRC. While SCE&G’s current plans are to pursue the development of one or both of these nuclear units, these plans will continue to be influenced by many factors, including NRC licensing attainment, ongoing evaluation of relative construction and operating costs, the cost of competing fuels, regulatory and environmental requirements and financial market conditions. 

In May 2007, the Base Load Review Act (the Act) became law in South Carolina. This law is intended to allow a utility to recover prudently incurred capital and operating costs associated with new nuclear or coal-fired base load electric generating facilities larger than 350 megawatts. Based on an application filed by the utility under the Act, the SCPSC would review and rule on the prudency of the decision to build the plant. If the decision was found to be prudent, that finding would be binding on all future proceedings so long as the plant is constructed in accordance with the schedules, estimates and projections set forth in the approved application. In addition, beginning with the initial proceeding, the utility would be allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate any nuclear construction work in progress incurred. Requested rate adjustments would be based on the utility’s updated cost of debt and capital structure. The cost of service and rate design would be based on the rates approved in the utility’s most recent electric rate order. The utility may choose to file for a project-specific return on common equity or use the return from its most recent rate proceeding if the proceeding is less than five years old. 

SCANA's leverage ratio of debt to capital was approximately 55% at December 31, 2007. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to maintain this leverage ratio at 54% to 55%, but SCANA's ability to do so depends on a number of factors. If SCANA is not able to maintain its leverage ratio, SCANA's debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. 

The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for 2008-2010, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows: 

Table of Contents  

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2007 are summarized as follows: 

Contractual Cash Obligations 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Also included in other commercial commitments is a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Included in purchase obligations are customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty. 

In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded, and no further contributions are anticipated until after 2010. Cash payments under the health care and life insurance benefit plan were $11.4 million in 2007, and such annual payments are expected to increase to the $12-$13 million range in the future. 

In addition, the Company is party to certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1B and 10G to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Company does not have any recorded or unrecorded obligations under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.” 

Table of Contents  

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and the incurrence of additional short- and long-term indebtedness. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. 

Cash outlays for 2007 (actual) and 2008 (estimated) for certain expenditures are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Financing Limits and Related Matters 

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Descriptions of financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow. 

Pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act, SCE&G and GENCO must obtain FERC authority to issue short-term debt. The FERC has authorized SCE&G and GENCO to issue up to $700 million and $100 million, respectively, of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less. This authorization expires February 6, 2010. 

At December 31, 2007, SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy had available the following lines of credit and short-term borrowings outstanding: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) SCANA, SCE&G or a combination may use the line of credit. 

SCANA's Restated Articles of Incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCE&G’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and its bond indenture each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances, which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock. 

SCANA Corporation 

SCANA has in effect an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term note debt securities. The Indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued. 

 South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its currently outstanding First Mortgage Bonds and all of its future mortgage-backed debt (Bonds) has been and will be issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, will be issuable under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Bond Ratio was 7.08.

Table of Contents  

SCE&G’s Restated Articles of Incorporation (Articles) prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as therein defined) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one-half times (1.5) the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Preferred Stock Ratio was 2.08. 

The Articles also require the consent of a majority of the total voting power of SCE&G’s preferred stock before SCE&G may issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&G’s secured indebtedness and capital and surplus (the Ten Percent Test). No such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2007, the Ten Percent Test would have limited total issuances of unsecured indebtedness to approximately $445.4 million. Unsecured indebtedness at December 31, 2007, totaled $436.3 million, and was comprised primarily of short-term borrowings. 

Financing Cash Flows 

During 2007 the Company experienced net cash outflows related to financing activities of $67 million primarily due to the payment of dividends, which were partially offset by net increases in short-term borrowings. 

The Company uses interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk. These swap agreements provide for the Company to pay variable and receive fixed rate interest payments and are designated as fair value hedges of certain debt instruments. The Company may terminate a swap agreement and may replace it with a new swap also designated as a fair value hedge. Payments received upon termination of such swaps are recorded as basis adjustments to long-term debt and are amortized as reductions to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt. At December 31, 2007, the estimated fair value of the Company’s swaps totaled a $0.6 million gain related to combined notional amounts of $16.0 million. 

In anticipation of the issuance of debt, the Company may use interest rate lock or similar swap agreements to manage interest rate risk. These arrangements are designated as cash flow hedges. Payments made or received upon termination of such agreements by regulated subsidiaries are recorded in regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities, respectively, and if by the holding company, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Payments made or received are amortized to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt. As permitted by SFAS 104 “Statement of Cash Flows - Net Reporting of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments and Classification of Cash Flows from Hedging Transactions,” payments received or made are classified as a financing activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows. 

In June 2007 SCANA entered into an agreement to issue and sell Floating Rate Senior Notes due June 1, 2034, in an aggregate principal amount of between $90 million and $110 million. In December 2007 SCANA issued $40 million of the Floating Rate Senior Notes. The balance of the notes are to be issued at intervals between December 2008 and June 2009. At December 31, 2007 the estimated fair value of the Company’s forward starting interest rate swap related to the Floating Rate Senior Notes totaled $7.2 million (loss).  

In the fourth quarter of 2007 SCE&G entered into several 30-year forward-starting swaps aggregating $250 million. These swaps were terminated in January 2008 concurrent with the issuance by SCE&G of $250 million of its Bonds. The loss of approximately $14.0 million on the settlement of these swaps will be amortized over the 30-year life of the Bonds. 

For additional information on significant financing activities, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

On February 14, 2008, SCANA increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on SCANA common stock to $.46 per share, an increase of 4.5%. The new dividend is payable April 1, 2008 to stockholders of record on March 10, 2008. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

The Company’s regulated operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the Clean Air Act, as amended (CAA), the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), the Clean Water Act, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (Nuclear Waste Act) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), among others. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which the Company expects to recover through existing ratemaking provisions. 

Table of Contents  

For the three years ended December 31, 2007, the Company’s capital expenditures for environmental control totaled $261.3 million. These expenditures were in addition to environmental expenditures included in “Other operation and maintenance” expenses, which were $34.4 million during 2007, $28.7 million during 2006, and $25.2 million during 2005. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $280.2 million for 2008 and $306.6 million for the four-year period 2009-2012. These expenditures are included in the Company’s Estimated Capital Expenditures table, discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include the matters discussed below. 

In addition, the Company is monitoring federal legislative proposals that, among other things, may require significant reductions in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions widely believed to contribute to global climate change. Such legislation could impose a tax based on the carbon content of primary fossil fuels used by the Company, such as coal and natural gas. Other proposals call for implementation of a cap and trade program as a means of meeting stringent new emissions standards. A national mandatory renewable portfolio standard (RPS) may also be considered. Under an RPS, electric utilities would be required to generate a specific percentage of their power from sources deemed to be “climate-friendly,” such as solar, wind, geothermal and agricultural waste, over varying periods of time. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proposals. 

At the state level, no significant environmental legislation that would affect the Company’s operations advanced during 2007. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be introduced or enacted in 2008, or if new regulations or changes to existing regulations at the state or federal level will be implemented in the coming year. 

Air Quality 

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued CAIR as a final rule in 2005 known as CAIR. CAIR requires the District of Columbia and 28 states, including South Carolina, to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in order to attain mandated state levels. CAIR sets emission limits to be met in two phases beginning in 2009 and 2015, respectively, for nitrogen oxide and beginning in 2010 and 2015, respectively, for sulfur dioxide. Numerous states, environmental organizations, industry groups and individual companies have challenged the rule, seeking a change in the method CAIR uses to allocate sulfur dioxide emission allowances. The Company believes that installation of additional air quality controls will be needed to meet the CAIR requirements. Although compliance plans and costs to comply with the rule have not been determined, it is believed that such costs will be material and will be recoverable through rates. 

The EPA issued a final rule referred to as CAMR in 2005 establishing a mercury emissions cap and trade program for coal-fired power plants that required limits to be met in two phases, in 2010 and 2018. Numerous parties challenged the rule. On February 8, 2008, the United States Circuit Court for the District of Columbia vacated the rule for electric utility steam generating units. The Company cannot predict the effect of this ruling on implementation of CAMR state implementation plans (SIPS) and newly promulgated CAMR regulations by the states. 

The EPA has undertaken an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry, and the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) has brought suit against a number of utilities in federal court alleging violations of the CAA. At least two of these suits have either been tried or have had substantive motions decided—neither favorable to the industry. One of the decisions is not believed to be binding as precedent and the other one, described more fully below, may be. 

On April 2, 2007, in a unanimous ruling, the U.S. Supreme Court vacated a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that effectively halted the EPA enforcement action against Duke Energy Corporation (Duke) for allegedly performing plant modifications without a required permit. Such modifications for life extension and modernization as performed by Duke and other utilities, including SCE&G, were common within the industry. Hence this decision may heighten the potential exposure of utilities to enforcement actions such as those already brought against Duke and others, many of which had not proceeded pending this Supreme Court decision. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be predicted. 

Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA, under a stringent rule known as New Source Review (NSR), that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute “major modifications” which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). SCE&G and GENCO have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of “major modifications,” including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. On October 27, 2003, EPA published a final revised NSR rule in the Federal Register with an effective date of December 26, 2003. The rule represents an industry-favorable departure from certain positions advanced by the federal government in the NSR enforcement initiative. However, on motion of several Northeastern states, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stayed the effect of the final rule. The ultimate application of the final rule to the Company is uncertain. The Company has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPA’s requests and believes each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance under what it believes is a fair reading of both the prior regulation and the contested revised regulation. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. 

The current state of continued DOJ enforcement actions is the subject of industry-wide speculation, but it is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G and GENCO, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $32,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the three plants. The Company believes that any enforcement actions relative to the Company’s compliance with the CAA would be without merit. The Company has completed installation of selective catalytic reactors at Wateree and Williams for nitrogen oxides control and is proceeding with plans to install sulfur dioxide scrubbers at both of these stations to meet CAIR regulations. These actions would mitigate many of the concerns with NSR. SCE&G and GENCO expect to incur capital expenditures totaling approximately $450 million over the 2007-2010 period to install this new equipment. SCE&G and GENCO expect to have increased operation and maintenance costs of approximately $2.4 million in 2010 and $16 million in 2011 and each year thereafter. To meet compliance requirements for the years 2012-2016, SCE&G and GENCO anticipate additional capital expenditures totaling approximately $480 million. 

Water Quality 

The Clean Water Act, as amended, provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the Clean Water Act, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all, and renewed for nearly all, of SCE&G’s and GENCO’s generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling discharges, has modified the requirements for cooling water intake structures, and has required strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the Clean Water Act. Such legislation may include limitations to mixing zones and toxicity-based standards. These provisions, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, SCE&G and GENCO. 

Hazardous and Solid Wastes 

The Nuclear Waste Act required that the United States government accept and permanently dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. The Nuclear Waste Act also imposed on utilities the primary responsibility for storage of their spent nuclear fuel until the repository is available. SCE&G entered into a Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste with the DOE in 1983. As of December 31, 2007, the federal government has not accepted any spent fuel from Summer Station or any other utility, and it remains unclear when the repository may become available. SCE&G has on-site spent nuclear fuel storage capability until at least 2018 and expects to be able to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent nuclear fuel output for the life of Summer Station through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. 

The provisions of CERCLA authorize the EPA to require the clean-up of hazardous waste sites. In addition, the states of South Carolina and North Carolina have similar laws. The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. In addition, regulators from the EPA and other federal or state agencies periodically notify the Company that it may be required to perform or participate in the investigation and remediation of a hazardous waste site. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures may differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Such amounts are recorded in deferred debits and amortized with recovery provided through rates. The Company has assessed the following matters. 

Electric Operations 

SCE&G has been named, along with 53 others, by the EPA as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at the Alternate Energy Resources, Inc. (AER) Superfund site located in Augusta, Georgia. The EPA placed the site on the National Priorities List on April 19, 2006. AER conducted hazardous waste storage and treatment operations from 1975 to 2000, when the site was abandoned. While operational, AER processed fuels from waste oils, treated industrial coolants and oil/water emulsions, recycled solvents and blended hazardous waste fuels. During that time, SCE&G occasionally used AER for the processing of waste solvents, oily rags and oily wastewater. The EPA and the State of Georgia have documented that a release or releases have occurred at the site leading to contamination of groundwater, surface water and soils. The EPA and the State of Georgia have conducted a preliminary assessment and site inspection. The site has not been remediated nor has a clean-up cost been estimated. Although a basis for the allocation of

Table of Contents  

clean-up costs among the PRPs is unclear, SCE&G does not believe that its involvement at this site would result in an allocation of costs that would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Any cost allocated to SCE&G arising from the remediation of this site, net of insurance recoveries, if any, is expected to be recoverable through rates. 

SCE&G has been named, along with 29 others, by the EPA as a PRP at the Carolina Transformer Superfund site located in Fayetteville, North Carolina. The Carolina Transformer Company (CTC) conducted an electrical transformer rebuilding and repair operation at the site from approximately 1959 to 1986. During that time, SCE&G occasionally used CTC for the repair of existing transformers, purchase of new transformers and sale of used transformers. In 1984, the EPA initiated a remediation of PCB-contaminated soil and groundwater at the site. The EPA reports that it has spent $36 million to date. In 2008, SCE&G, along with other parties, reached a settlement with the EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice on this matter. The settlement, which is subject to court approval, would result in an allocation of cost, net of insurance recoveries, to SCE&G that is not material, and such cost is expected to be recoverable through rates. 

Gas Distribution 

SCE&G is responsible for four decommissioned manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by-product chemicals. These sites are in various stages of investigation, remediation and monitoring under work plans approved by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC). SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities at these sites will continue until 2012 and will cost an additional $11.9 million. In addition, the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior made an initial demand to SCE&G for payment of $9.1 million for certain costs and damages relating to the MGP site in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE&G expects to recover any cost arising from the remediation of these four sites through rates. At December 31, 2007, deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $16.7 million. 

PSNC Energy is responsible for environmental clean-up at five sites in North Carolina on which MGP residuals are present or suspected. PSNC Energy's actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third-party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of $4.6 million, which reflects its estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2007. PSNC Energy expects to recover through rates any costs, net of insurance recoveries, allocable to PSNC Energy arising from the remediation of these sites through rates. 

REGULATORY MATTERS 

Material retail rate proceedings are described in more detail in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters. 

In May 2007, the law was changed to revise the statutory definition of fuel costs to include certain variable environmental costs such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The revised definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and mercury and particulates. 

The Natural Gas Rate Stabilization Act of 2005 allows natural gas distribution companies to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC. 

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated 

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. 

On February 27, 2008, PSNC Energy filed a letter of intent with the NCUC indicating its intention to file an application for a general increase in its rates and charges on or about March 28, 2008.

Table of Contents  

The United States Congress passed the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (the Pipeline Safety Act), directing the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish the Integrity Management Rule for operations of natural gas systems with transmission pipelines located near moderate to high density populations. Of PSNC Energy’s approximately 593 miles of transmission pipeline subject to the Pipeline Safety Act, approximately 57 miles are located within these areas. Fifty percent of these miles of pipeline were required to be assessed by December 2007, and the remainder by December 2012. Through December 2007, PSNC Energy has achieved a completion rate of eighty-five percent. Depending on the assessment method used, PSNC Energy will be required to reinspect these same miles of pipeline approximately every seven years. Though cost estimates for this program were developed using various assumptions, each of which is subject to imprecision, PSNC Energy currently estimates the total cost through December 2012 to be $6.5 million for the initial assessments, not including any subsequent remediation that may be required. Effective November 1, 2004 the NCUC authorized deferral accounting for certain expenses incurred to comply with DOT’s pipeline integrity management requirements. In accordance with an October 2006 NCUC rate order, $1.4 million in costs incurred and deferred through June 30, 2006 are now being recovered through rates over a three-year period. Additionally, the rate order approved continuance of deferred accounting treatment for certain pipeline integrity management expenses until resolution of PSNC Energy’s next general rate proceeding. 

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation 

CGTC has approximately 74 miles of transmission line that are covered by the Integrity Management Rule of the Pipeline Safety Act. Though cost estimates for this project were developed using various assumptions, each of which is subject to imprecision, CGTC currently estimates the total cost to be $8.3 million for the initial assessments and any subsequent remediation required through December 2012. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations. 

Utility Regulation 

SCANA’s regulated utilities are subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” which require them to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate-regulated. In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of SFAS 71 and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities, including those associated with the Company’s environmental assessment program. 

The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.3 billion and $517 million, respectively. 

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues 

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last reading of their meters. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $175.5 million at December 31, 2007 and $177.6 million at December 31, 2006, compared to total revenues for each year 2007 and 2006 of $4.6 billion. 

Table of Contents  

Provisions for Bad Debts and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts 

As of each balance sheet date, the Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and records allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of expected write-offs. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts, assigned credit ratings for commercial and industrial accounts, credit scores for residential customers in Georgia when available, and consideration of actual write-off history. The distribution segments of the Company’s regulated utilities have established write-off histories and regulated service areas that tend to improve the recoverability of accounts and enable the utilities to reliably estimate their respective provisions for bad debts. The Company’s Retail Gas Marketing segment operates in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market in which customers may obtain service from others without necessarily paying outstanding amounts and in which there are certain limitations on the Company’s ability to effect timely shut-off of service for nonpayment. As such, estimation of the provision for bad debts for these accounts is subject to greater imprecision. 

Nuclear Decommissioning 

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years in the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers). 

SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $451.0 million, stated in 2006 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station. The cost estimate assumes that the site would be maintained over a period of 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use. 

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds, and interest on proceeds, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after-tax basis. 

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 

The Company follows SFAS 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” as amended by SFAS 158, “Employees’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” in accounting for the cost of its defined benefit pension plan. The Company’s plan is adequately funded and as such, net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations-Pension Income). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and expected returns on assets. Net pension income of $17.4 million recorded in 2007 reflects the use of a 5.85% discount rate, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 9.0% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension income amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, using a discount rate of 5.60% in 2007 would have decreased the Company’s pension income by $0.1 million. Had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 8.75%, the Company’s pension income for 2007 would have been reduced by $2.2 million. 

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted. 

The Company determines the fair value of a majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes, with the remaining fair value derived from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. 

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. The plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 7.8%, 10.7%, 11.4% and 12.0%, respectively, all of which have been in excess of related broad indices. The 2007 expected long-term rate of return of 9.0% was based on a target asset allocation of 70% with equity managers and 30% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. For 2008, the expected rate of return will be 9.0%. 

Table of Contents  

The pension trust is adequately funded, and no contributions have been required since 1997. Management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until after 2012. 

Similar to its pension accounting, the Company follows SFAS 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” as amended by SFAS 158, in accounting for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 5.85%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $17.9 million for 2007. Had the selected discount rate been 5.60%, the expense for 2007 would have been $0.7 million higher. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

Asset Retirement Obligations 

SFAS 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” together with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,” provides guidance for recording and disclosing liabilities related to future legally enforceable obligations to retire assets (ARO). SFAS 143 applies to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from their acquisition, construction, development and normal operation. Because such obligation relates primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, SFAS 143 and FIN 47 have no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has recorded an ARO of $99 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and an ARO of $209 million for other conditional obligations related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts recorded in connection with SFAS 143 and FIN 47 are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments will be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the Company’s utilities remains in place. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions 

Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities such as those described in SFAS 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,” or as described in FIN 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” SCANA does not engage in off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, equipment and rail cars. 

Claims and Litigation 

For a description of claims and litigation see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK