PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE 

SCANA Corporation (SCANA), a holding company, owns the following direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries. 

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) generates, transports and sells electricity to retail and wholesale customers and purchases, sells and transports natural gas to retail customers. 

South Carolina Generating Company, Inc. (GENCO) owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. 

South Carolina Fuel Company, Inc. (Fuel Company) acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances. 

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (PSNC Energy) purchases, sells and transports natural gas to retail customers. 

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation (CGTC) transports natural gas in South Carolina and southeastern Georgia. 

SCANA Communications, Inc. (SCI) provides fiber optic communications, ethernet services and data center facilities and builds, manages and leases communications towers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. 

SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc. (SEMI) markets natural gas, primarily in the Southeast, and provides energy-related risk management services. Through its SCANA Energy division, SEMI markets natural gas in Georgia's retail natural gas market. 

ServiceCare, Inc. provides service contracts on home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. 

SCANA Services, Inc. provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA’s subsidiaries and business units. 

SCANA is incorporated in South Carolina as is each of its direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries. In addition to the subsidiaries above, SCANA owns three other energy-related companies that are insignificant and one additional company that is in liquidation. 

Table of Contents  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, estimated construction and other expenditures and factors affecting the availability of synthetic fuel tax credits. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: 

(1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; 

(2) regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation and environmental regulations; 

(3) current and future litigation; 

(4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA; 

(5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels 

 in industrial interruptible markets; 

(6) growth opportunities for SCANA's regulated and diversified subsidiaries; 

(7) the results of financing efforts; 

(8) changes in SCANA’s or its subsidiaries’ accounting rules and accounting policies; 

(9) the effects of weather, including drought, especially in areas where the generation 

 and transmission facilities of SCANA and its subsidiaries are located and in areas served by SCANA's 

 subsidiaries; 

(10) payment by counterparties as and when due; 

(11) the results of efforts to license, site and construct facilities for baseload generation; 

(12) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the  

 availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future 

 market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels 

 and purchased power; 

(13) performance of SCANA's pension plan assets; 

(14) inflation; 

(15) compliance with regulations; and 

(16) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the periodic reports filed by SCANA 

 or its subsidiaries with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including those 

 risks described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. 

SCANA and SCE&G disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

Table of Contents   

ORGANIZATION 

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA holds, directly or indirectly, all of the capital stock of each of its subsidiaries except for the preferred stock of SCE&G. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2008 and 2007 of 5,703 and 5,683, respectively. SCE&G is an operating public utility incorporated in 1924 as a South Carolina corporation. SCE&G had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2008 and 2007 of 3,011 and 2,908, respectively. 

INVESTOR INFORMATION 

SCANA's and SCE&G's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA's internet website at www.scana.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished. Information on SCANA's website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS 

SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties. SCANA, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the functionally distinct operations described below. SCANA also has an investment in one limited liability company (LLC) which owns and operates a cogeneration facility in Charleston, South Carolina. 

For information with respect to major segments of business, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 11). All such information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Regulated Utilities 

SCE&G generates, transports and sells electricity to 639,300 customers and purchases, sells and transports natural gas to 302,500 customers (each as of December 31, 2007). SCE&G's business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G's electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 16,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 35 counties in South Carolina and covers more than 23,000 square miles. More than 3.0 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include rubber and plastic, chemicals, health services, paper, retail, metal fabrication, stone, clay and glass, engineering and management services and textile manufacturing. 

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. 

Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances. 

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to 457,200 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2007). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The industrial customers of PSNC Energy include manufacturers or processors of ceramics and clay products, glass, automotive products, pharmaceuticals, plastics, metals and a variety of food and tobacco products. 

CGTC operates as an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). CGTC operates in southeastern Georgia and in South Carolina and has interconnections with Southern Natural Gas Company (Southern Natural) at Port Wentworth, Georgia and with Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. CGTC also has interconnections with Southern Natural in Aiken County, South Carolina, and with Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Corporation (Transco) in Cherokee and Spartanburg counties, South Carolina. CGTC’s customers include SCE&G (which uses natural gas for electricity generation and for gas distribution to retail customers), SEMI (which markets natural gas to industrial and sale for resale customers, primarily in the Southeast), other natural gas utilities, municipalities and county gas authorities, and industrial customers primarily engaged in the manufacturing or processing of ceramics, paper, metal, food and textiles. 

Table of Contents  

Nonregulated Businesses 

SEMI markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to over 475,000 customers (as of December 31, 2007) in Georgia's natural gas market. The Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) has again selected SCANA Energy to serve as the state’s regulated provider until August 31, 2009. Included in the above customer count, SCANA Energy serves over 95,000 customers (as of December 31, 2007) under this regulated provider contract, which includes low-income and high credit risk customers. SCANA Energy's total customer base represents over a 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia's deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. 

SCI owns and operates a 500-mile fiber optic telecommunications network and ethernet network and data center facilities in South Carolina. Through a joint venture, SCI has an interest in an additional 1,742 miles of fiber in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. SCI also provides tower site construction, management and rental services in South Carolina and North Carolina. 

The preceding Corporate Structure section describes other businesses owned by SCANA. 

COMPETITION 

For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries, including SCE&G, require cash to fund operations, construction programs and dividend payments to SCANA. To replace existing plant investment and to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries must attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, when requested. 

For a discussion of various rate matters and their impact on capital requirements, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

During the three-year period 2008-2010, SCANA and SCE&G expect to meet capital requirements through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and short-term and long-term borrowings. SCANA and SCE&G expect that they have or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet their projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. 

For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

CAPITAL PROJECTS 

For a discussion of contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCANA's ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 3.03, 2.94, 2.19, 2.65 and 2.82 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. SCE&G’s ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 3.40, 3.32, 2.26, 3.40 and 3.25 for the same periods. SCE&G’s ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preference dividends were 3.17, 3.08, 2.10, 3.15 and 3.01 for the same periods. SCANA’s and SCE&G’s ratios for 2005 were negatively impacted by the large amounts of accelerated depreciation discussed at Results of Operations - Income Taxes - Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits in their respective Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections, and because the calculation necessarily excludes the related and fully offsetting tax benefits recorded in that year. 

Table of Contents  

ELECTRIC OPERATIONS 

Electric Sales 

SCE&G's sales of electricity by customer classification as a percent of electric revenues for 2007 were unchanged from 2006 and were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales for resale include sales to seven municipalities. Sales under the NMST during 2007 include sales to 20 investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, four electric cooperatives and four federal/state electric agencies. During 2006 sales under the NMST included sales to 25 investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, three electric cooperatives, and three federal/state electric agencies. 

During 2007 SCE&G recorded a net increase of 15,900 electric customers (growth rate of 2.6%), increasing its total electric customers to 639,300 at year end. During 2007, a new all-time peak demand of 4,926 megawatts (MW) was set on August 10, 2007. 

For the three-year period 2008-2010, SCE&G projects total territorial kilowatt hour (KWh) sales of electricity to decrease 0.4% annually (assuming normal weather), total electric customer base to increase 2.4% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to decrease 0.1% annually. The projected decrease in KWh sales and territorial peak load result from the scheduled expiration of certain sales for resale contracts. While SCE&G's goal is to maintain a reserve margin of between 12% and 18%, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall significantly below the reserve margin goal. 

Electric Interconnections 

SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO's Williams Station under a Unit Power Sales Agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 615 MW. 

SCE&G's transmission system forms part of an interconnected grid extending over a large part of the southern and eastern portions of the nation. SCE&G, Dominion Virginia Power, Duke Power Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, APGI (Yadkin Division) and the South Carolina Public Service Authority (Santee Cooper) are members of the Virginia-Carolinas Reliability Group, one of several geographic divisions within the Southeastern Electric Reliability Council (SERC). SERC is a regional entity of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) responsible for promoting, coordinating and ensuring the reliability and adequacy of the bulk power supply systems in the geographic area served by the member systems. SCE&G also interconnects with Georgia Power Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation and the Southeastern Power Administration's Clarks Hill Project. For a discussion of the impact certain legislative and regulatory initiatives may have on SCE&G's transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

Table of Contents  

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply 

The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) for the years 2005-2007 follow: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The sources and percentages of total megawatt hour (MWh) generation by each category of fuel for the years 2005-2007 and the estimates for the years 2008-2010 follow: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Six of the fossil fuel-fired plants use coal. Unit trains and in some cases trucks and barges deliver coal to these plants. On December 31, 2007 SCE&G had approximately a 71-day supply of coal in inventory. 

Coal is obtained through long-term supply contracts and spot market purchases. Long-term contracts exist with six suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 4.1 million tons annually, which is 65% of total expected coal purchases for 2008. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from 1.0% to 1.5%. These contracts expire at various times through 2010. Spot market purchases are expected to continue when needed or when prices are favorable. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that SCE&G's operations comply with all existing regulations relating to the discharge of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G has adequate supplies of uranium or enriched uranium product under contract to manufacture nuclear fuel for the V. C. Summer Nuclear Station (Summer Station) through 2009. The following table summarizes contract commitments for the stages of nuclear fuel assemblies: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) A region represents approximately one-third to one-half of the nuclear core in the reactor at any one time. Region 19 was 

loaded in 2006. 

SCE&G can store spent nuclear fuel on-site until at least 2018 and expects to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Summer Station through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. In addition, Summer Station has sufficient on-site storage capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the United States Department of Energy (DOE) regarding disposal of spent fuel, see Hazardous and Solid Wastes within the Environmental Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

Table of Contents  

GAS OPERATIONS 

Gas Sales-Regulated 

Sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported for 2006 and 2007 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

For the three-year period 2008-2010, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in dekatherms (DT) to increase 1.7% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in DT sales include residential of 2.6%, commercial of 1.5% and industrial 1.1%. 

SCANA's total consolidated regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase 3.3% annually. During 2007 SCANA recorded a net increase of 21,000 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 2.8%), increasing its regulated gas customers to 759,000. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of 5,300 gas customers (growth rate of 1.8%), increasing its total gas customers to 302,500 (as of December 31, 2007). 

Demand for gas changes primarily due to the effect of weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels. 

Gas Cost, Supply and Curtailment Plans 

South Carolina 

SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers in both the spot and long-term markets. The gas is brought to South Carolina through transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2010), Transco (expiring in 2008 and 2017) and CGTC (expiring 2009). The daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts on a firm basis is 161,143 DT from Southern Natural, 64,652 DT from Transco and 296,629 DT from CGTC. Natural gas volumes may be brought to SCE&G's system as capacity is available for interruptible transportation. In addition, SCE&G, under contract with SEMI, is entitled to receive a daily contract demand of 120,000 DTs for use in either electric generation or for resale to SCE&G’s customers. 

The daily volume of gas that SEMI is entitled to transport under its service agreement with CGTC (expiring in 2023) on a firm basis is 198,083 DT. 

SCE&G purchased natural gas at an average cost of $9.69 per MCF during 2007 and $9.82 per MCF during 2006. 

SCE&G was allocated 5,406 MMCF of natural gas storage space on Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 4,224 MMCF of gas were in storage on December 31, 2007. To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG liquefaction and storage facilities. The LNG plants are capable of storing the liquefied equivalent of 1,880 MMCF of natural gas. Approximately 1,758 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2007. 

North Carolina 

PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at current price indices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at index prices plus a reservation charge. Transco and Dominion Transmission, Inc. (Dominion) deliver the gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging through 2016. On a peak day, PSNC Energy may transport daily volumes of gas under these contracts on a firm basis of 259,894 DT from Transco and 7,331 DT from Dominion. 

PSNC Energy purchased natural gas at an average cost of $8.55 per DT during 2007 compared to $9.47 per DT during 2006. 

Table of Contents  

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion, Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 12,800 MMCF. Approximately 11,000 MMCF of gas were in storage at December 31, 2007. In addition, PSNC Energy's own LNG facility can store the liquefied equivalent of 1,000 MMCF of natural gas with regasification capability of approximately 100 MMCF per day. Approximately 800 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2007. LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG provide for 1,300 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 1,100 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) were in storage at December 31, 2007. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth. 

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated 

SEMI markets natural gas and provides energy-related risk management services primarily in the Southeast. In addition, SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to over 475,000 customers (as of December 31, 2007) in Georgia's natural gas market. SCANA Energy's total customer base represents over a 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia's deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. 

Risk Management 

SCANA and SCE&G have established policies and procedures and risk limits to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational and administrative risks assumed by them. The Board of Directors of each company has delegated to a Risk Management Committee the authority to set risk limits, establish policies and procedures for risk management and measurement, and to oversee and review the risk management process and infrastructure. The Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of certain officers, including a Risk Management Officer and senior officers, apprises the Board of Directors of each company with regard to the management of risk and brings to the Board's attention any areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved, as well as the authorization requirements and limits for transactions. 

REGULATION 

SCANA, together with its subsidiaries, is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC and FERC as to the issuance of certain securities, acquisitions and other matters. State public service commissions or FERC regulate certain subsidiaries of SCANA as to the following matters. 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters. SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings and other matters. 

GENCO is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, accounting and other matters. 

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) as to gas rates, service, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. 

CGTC is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to transportation rates, service, accounting and other matters. 

SCANA Energy is regulated by the GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically is subject to the jurisdiction of the GPSC as to retail prices for customers served under the regulated provider contract. 

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting. See the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G and GENCO have obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue up to $700 million of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less, and GENCO may issue up to $100 million of such short-term indebtedness. FERC’s approval expires February 6, 2010. 

Table of Contents  

SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

SCE&G expects to apply to FERC for relicensing of the Saluda project in 2008. 

At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, FERC may issue a license to another applicant or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages. 

For a discussion of legislative and regulatory initiatives being implemented that will affect SCE&G's transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G is subject to regulation by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) with respect to the ownership, operation and decommissioning of Summer Station. The NRC's jurisdiction encompasses broad supervisory and regulatory powers over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, including matters of health and safety, antitrust considerations and environmental impact. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency reviews, in conjunction with the NRC, certain aspects of emergency planning relating to the operation of nuclear plants. 

RATE MATTERS 

For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's gas rate schedules for their residential and small commercial and small industrial customers include a weather normalization adjustment (WNA). SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's WNA were approved by the SCPSC and NCUC, respectively, and are in effect for bills rendered during the period November 1 through April 30 of each year. In each case the WNA increases tariff rates if weather is warmer than normal and decreases rates if weather is colder than normal. The WNA does not change the seasonality of gas revenues, but reduces fluctuations in revenues and earnings caused by abnormal weather. 

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures 

The SCPSC’s fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G's retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any overcollection or undercollection from the preceding 12-month period. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding at any time should circumstances dictate such a review. As part of the annual review of fuel costs, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s request to increase the cost of fuel component from 2.516 cents per KWh to 2.630 cents per KWh effective the first billing cycle in May 2007.  

SCE&G's gas rate schedules and contracts include mechanisms that allow it to recover from its customers changes in the actual cost of gas. SCE&G's firm gas rates allow for the recovery of the cost of gas, based on projections, as established by the SCPSC. SCE&G adjusts its cost of gas on a monthly basis based on a twelve-month rolling average. 

In May 2007, the law was changed to revise the statutory definition of fuel costs to include certain variable environmental costs such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The revised definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and mercury and particulates. 

In addition to WNA, PSNC Energy’s Rider D rate mechanism serves to reduce fluctuations in PSNC Energy’s earnings. The Rider D mechanism allows PSNC Energy to recover, in any manner authorized by the NCUC, losses on negotiated gas and transportation sales. The Rider D rate mechanism also allows PSNC Energy to recover from customers all prudently incurred gas costs and certain uncollectible expenses related to gas cost. 

PSNC Energy's rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas. PSNC Energy revises its tariffs with the NCUC as necessary to track these changes and accounts for any over- or under-collections of the delivered cost of gas in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNC Energy's gas purchasing practices annually. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of these regulations and standards upon existing and proposed operations cannot be predicted. For a more complete discussion of how these regulations and standards impact SCANA and SCE&G, see the Environmental Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 10B). 

OTHER MATTERS 

For a discussion of SCE&G's insurance coverage for Summer Station, see Note 10A to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS