PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

BUSINESS OVERVIEW  

Scripps Networks Interactive is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet with respected, high-profile television and interactive brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly useful content that focuses on specifically defined topics of interest.  

We manage our operations through our reportable operating segment, Lifestyle Media. Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, Food Network, Home and Garden Television (“HGTV”), Travel Channel, DIY Network (“DIY”), Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Lifestyle Media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home and travel related categories.  

We also have established lifestyle media brands internationally. Our lifestyle-oriented channels are available in the United Kingdom, other European markets, the Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific. The results for our international businesses are not separately identified as a reportable segment and are included within our corporate and other segment caption.  

Our businesses earn revenue principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including the sale and licensing of consumer products. Programming expenses, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are our primary operating costs.  

We seek to engage audiences that are highly desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the Internet and any other media platforms consumers choose. We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands through the creation of popular new programming and content, the use of new distribution platforms, such as mobile phones and video-on-demand, the licensing and sale of branded consumer products and through international expansion.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

Lifestyle Media  

Our Lifestyle Media business segment includes six national television networks and our portfolio of related interactive lifestyle brands. The segment generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising time on national television networks and interactive media platforms and from affiliate fees paid by cable television operators, direct-to-home satellite services and other  

3  

Table of Contents 

 distributors that carry our network programming. In 2013, revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees were approximately 69 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the Lifestyle Media segment. Our Lifestyle Media segment also earns revenue from the licensing of its content to third parties and the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as videos, books, kitchenware, and tools.  

The advertising revenue generated by our national television networks depends on the viewership ratings as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies and the advertising rates paid by advertisers for the company to deliver advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. Advertising revenue can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programs, blocks of programming during defined periods of the day and seasonal demand of advertisers. Affiliate fee revenues are negotiated with individual cable television and direct-to-home satellite operators and other distributors. The negotiations typically result in multi-year carriage agreements with scheduled rate increases. As an incentive to obtain long-term distribution agreements for our networks, we have made cash payments to cable and direct-to-home satellite operators, provided an initial period during which a distributor’s affiliate fee payments are waived, or both. The amount of the fee we receive is determined by the number of subscribers with access to our network programming.  

Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our Lifestyle Media segment. Program amortization represented 44 percent of Lifestyle Media expenses in 2013 reflecting our continued investment in the improved quality and variety of programming on our networks. We incur sales and marketing expenses to support brand-building initiatives at all of our television networks.  

Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media brands that are intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of food, home, travel and lifestyle content. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived primarily from the sale of display, banner, rich media and video advertising.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including our six network-branded websites, Foodnetwork.com, HGTV.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as the home websites for the segment’s television programming networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their broader lifestyle content categories. All of the segment’s interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming of which approximately 94 percent is owned by us. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on the Internet and other interactive distribution channels, including mobile and video-on-demand.  

The lifestyle websites accounted for about 4 percent of the segment’s total revenue in 2013. The strategic focus of the lifestyle interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and adding more video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through the placement of our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms.  

We also have 50 percent ownership interests in Food Network Magazine JV and HGTV Magazine JV, and a 7.25 percent ownership interest in Fox-BRV Southern Sports Holdings LLC, which comprises the Sports South and Fox Sports Net South regional television networks.  

Food Network  

Food Network is available in approximately 99 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own approximately 69 percent of the Food Network and we are the managing partner. The Tribune Company has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 31 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Content on Food Network includes Food Network Star; Diners, Drive-ins and Dives; Restaurant Impossible; and Chopped. Many of the programs on Food Network feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Anne Burrell, Bobby Flay, Giada De Laurentiis, Guy Fieri, Rachel Ray, and Robert Irvine.   

HGTV  

HGTV reaches about 97 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD. HGTV television programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home and shelter-related topics. HGTV is television’s only network dedicated solely to such topics as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Programming on the network includes HGTV Design Star, House Hunters, House Hunters International, Love It or List It, and Property Brothers. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Green Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway, and annual live coverage of the Rose Bowl Parade. Many of the programs on HGTV feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Drew and Jonathan Scott, Anthony Carrino, John Colanero, John Gidding, Vern Yip, Candice Olson and Genevieve Gordon.   

Travel Channel  

Travel Channel is available in approximately 94 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD.  

Travel Channel is a leading travel multi-media brand, offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information to travel enthusiasts. Travel Channel and its targeted travel based programming appeal to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range.  

Programming on Travel Channel includes Hotel Impossible, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizzare Foods America, Dead Files, and Ghost Adventures. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Don Wildman, Anthony Melchiorri, Zak Bagans, Nick Groff and Aaron Goodwin.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is available in approximately 58 million U.S. households. The network is simulcast in HD and provides entertaining and informational programming content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement, crafts, gardening, and landscaping. DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming airing on the network includes Crasher Series, Rescue My Renovation, Rehab Addict, and Vanilla Ice Goes Amish. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature or are hosted by television personalities such as Amy Mathews, Jason Cameron, Josh Temple, Alison Victoria, Chris Grundy and Nicole Curtis.  

Cooking Channel  

The Cooking Channel was launched in May 2010 to take advantage of the expanding interest in food and cooking programming in the United States. The network is available in about 61 million households and is simulcast in HD. The Company currently owns a 69 percent controlling interest in the network.  

Cooking Channel caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking programming. The network delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids’ foods. The Cooking Channel appeals strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on Cooking Channel includes Eat Street, Unique Eats, My Grandmother’s Ravioli, Best in Chow and Restaurant Redemption. Many of the programs on Cooking Channel feature or are hosted by television personalities such as Mo Rocca, Nadia G., Debi Mazar and Gabriele Corcos, Ching-He Huang and G. Garvin.  

Great American Country  

Great American Country reaches about 63 million households with original lifestyle programming, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos. The network is simulcast in HD and provides its viewers with programming that celebrates the country lifestyle that includes the country music experience.  

Content on Great American Country includes Farm Kings, The Willis Clan, Kimberly’s Simply Southern, Day Jobs, and the Top 20 Country Countdown.  

International  

We are executing our growth strategy internationally and seek to become a world leader in lifestyle media. As of December 2013, we broadcast 14 channels reaching more than 150 million subscribers under the Food Network, Asian Food Channel (“AFC”), HGTV, Travel Channel, DIY and Fine Living brands. We are considering entering or creating partnerships to accelerate our channel and brand growth in many international markets. In addition to our broadcast networks, we continue to license a portion of our programming to other broadcasters and it can be seen in over 200 territories across the globe.  

We initiated our international channel strategy with the 2009 launch of Food Network on B-Sky-B in the United Kingdom, reaching 10 million households. In 2011, we made Food Network UK available in primetime on Freeview, a leading digital terrestrial television provider in the UK, thereby extending its reach to nearly every television household in the UK (approximately 26 million households). In 2012, we expanded its broadcast schedule on Freeview to a full 24 hours and it is now the most watched lifestyle network in the United Kingdom. Food Network is also distributed across Europe, Middle East and Africa as well as in Asia-Pacific.  

In 2013 we expanded in Asia by acquiring AFC. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 8 million subscribers in 11 markets.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired in 2012 along with its base of operations in London, England. TCI is broadcast in 21 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific. In 2013, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK.  

In 2011 we acquired 50% of UKTV, a television entity that is co-owned by the BBC, and represents a portfolio of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle channels in the UK, including channels in the home and food categories. We also continue to partner with Shaw Media on three very popular lifestyle channels in Canada: HGTV Canada, Food Network Canada, and DIY Network Canada.  

Our international businesses earn revenues primarily from advertising sales, affiliate fees, and the licensing of programming to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our international businesses.  

Competition  

Cable and satellite network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our cable and satellite networks and websites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Our networks also compete with other television networks for distribution and affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators and other distributors.  

Intellectual Property  

Our intellectual property assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties. To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory, and contractual legal protections. There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related intellectual property is difficult and costly. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal, and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment continues to present a threat to revenues.  

Regulatory Matters  

The Company’s businesses are subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies such as the European Union (the “EU”), and these laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television operators and satellite operators, which could affect our cable networks indirectly.  

Closed Captioning  

All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning of programming for hearing impaired. The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the Internet.  

CALM Act  

FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards, and our affiliation agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards.  

“Must-Carry” Requirements  

The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable and DBS operators to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, programming networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on cable television or DBS systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by cable television systems and DBS operators.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications  

We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers . The operation of these websites and distribution of these apps are subject to a range of federal, state and local laws such as privacy and consumer protection regulations.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,200 full-time equivalent employees.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of the Company  

Our executive officers as of March 3, 2014 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS