Item 1A. Risk Factors 

 The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports. 

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets   

 We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.   

 As of December 31, 2007, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled $17.2 billion, of which approximately $751 million matures during 2008, including recurring principal amortization on mortgages maturing during 2007. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from the is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

 We depend on external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.   

 We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets which have experienced increasing volatility in recent months. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

 Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.   

 Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

 Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.   

 We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate debt, or in the case of a fair value hedge, effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful.  

 Our use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.  

8 

Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations   

 We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.   

 We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not perform as well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:   

•construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; 

•we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all; 

•we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals; 

•occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and 

•we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those consents may be withheld.  

 If a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

 Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.   

 Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.  

Environmental Risks   

 As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.   

 Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain, or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

 Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.   

 Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot assure you that:   

•existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities; 

•any previous owner, occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;  

9 

•the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or 

•future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.  

Retail Operations Risks   

 We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.   

 Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and terrorist activities. The possibility that the United States may currently be experiencing a recession could adversely affect consumer spending. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.   

 We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.   

 We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections. Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected.   

 Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these tenants.   

 Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our properties could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store and larger store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

 We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.   

 Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur frequently in the course of our operations. We are continually re-leasing vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.  

Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties   

 We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance them.   

 As of December 31, 2007, we owned interests in 181 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 19 properties are included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 162 properties under the equity method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general partner or property manager for 93 of these 162 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as selling or refinancing these properties, require the consent of the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or  

10 

property manager, 59 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

 The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.   

 Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of December 31, 2007, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees and other guarantee obligations to support $132.5 million and $60.6 million, respectively, of our total $6.6 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.  

Other Factors Affecting Our Business   

 Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.   

 CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs, and security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. However, we are making a concerted effort to shift from variable to fixed CAM contributions for our cost recoveries which will fix our tenants' CAM contributions to us. As a result, our CAM contributions may not allow us to recover a substantial portion of these operating costs.   

 We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.   

 Our properties compete with other retail properties for tenants on the basis of the rent charged and location. The principal competition may come from existing or future developments in the same market areas and from discount shopping centers, outlet malls, catalogues, discount shopping clubs and electronic commerce. The presence of competitive properties also affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing malls could also negatively affect our properties.  

 We also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for attractive tenants and qualified management.   

 Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.   

 We hold interests in joint venture properties that are under operation in Europe, Japan, South Korea, and Mexico. We have also established arrangements to develop joint venture properties in China, and expect to pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks include:   

•adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; 

•changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally; 

•challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and litigation; 

•differing lending practices; 

•differences in cultures; 

•changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; 

•difficulties in managing international operations; and 

•obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.  

 Although our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented less than 6% of the GLA of all of our properties at December 31, 2007), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

11 

 Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.   

 We maintain commercial general liability "all risk" property coverage including fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on our properties. Our captive insurance company subsidiaries indemnify our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses. A similar policy written through our subsidiary also provides a portion of our initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations. Even insured losses could result in a serious disruption to our business and delay our receipt of revenue.  

 There are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.  

 We currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion per occurrence for certified foreign acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for non-certified domestic acts of terrorism. The current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks in high profile markets could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

 Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   

 Although inflation has not materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on our mortgage and debt interest and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our overage rents, where applicable.  

Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes   

 Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders.   

 We cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. If we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief provisions do not apply:   

•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; 

•we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; and 

•unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.  

 As a result, net income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will be reduced for those years in which we fail to qualify as a REIT. Also, we would no longer be required to distribute money to our stockholders. Although we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause us to revoke our REIT election.  

12 

       Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

Item 2. Properties