Part I  

 Item 1. Business  

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.  

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office senior management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire’s corporate governance practices, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate “tone at the top” messages to its employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.  

Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 331,000 people world-wide at the end of 2015. Berkshire’s corporate headquarters has 25 employees.  

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses  

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.  

In direct insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.  

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by the direct insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.  

Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.  

Insurers based in the United States (“U.S.”) are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends and capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.  

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party’s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance contracts.  

1  

Table of Contents 

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.  

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers was approximately $124 billion at December 31, 2015. All of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability.  

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2020 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (the “2015 TRIA Reauthorization”). Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of terrorism.” In 2016, coverage under TRIA occurs when the industry insured loss for certified events occurring during a calendar year exceeds $120 million. Under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, the level of insured losses for certified events occurring during a calendar year required to trigger coverage under TRIA will increase to $140 million in 2017 and increase annually thereafter by $20 million per year until the level of insured losses required to trigger coverage reaches $200 million in 2020. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.  

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) in 2016 for 84% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group’s deductible. Under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, the federal government’s reimbursement obligation will be reduced to 83% in 2017 and be decreased annually thereafter by 1% per year until the level of reimbursement is reduced to 80% in 2020. Under the Program the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2016 for Berkshire’s consolidated insurance and reinsurance businesses is expected to approximate $925 million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.  

Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the laws and regulations of each country in which an insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose comprehensive regulatory requirements on insurance businesses, such as in the United Kingdom, where insurers are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority and in Germany where insurers are subject to regulation by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Other jurisdictions may impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are also required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of insurance liabilities and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions.  

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for retroactive reinsurance and structured settlement and periodic payment annuity reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time creating “float” (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and will reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include investment income earned from investments. Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries employ approximately 42,000 people in the aggregate. Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s four underwriting groups follows.  

GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its insurance subsidiaries consist of: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company, GEICO Secure Insurance Company,  

2  

Table of Contents 

 GEICO County Mutual Insurance Company and GEICO Marine Insurance Company (formerly Seaworthy Insurance Company). These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners and life insurance to individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone.  

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies may exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy.  

As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 38% over the past five years. GEICO was the second largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms of premium volume in 2014. According to A.M. Best data for 2014, the five largest automobile insurers have a combined market share of 53%, with GEICO’s market share being approximately 10.9%. Since the publication of that data, management believes that GEICO’s current market share has grown to approximately 11.4%. Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.  

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims. The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.  

General Re—General Re Corporation (“General Re”) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC’s subsidiaries include General Reinsurance AG, a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 51 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management services, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.  

Property/Casualty Insurance and Reinsurance  

General Re’s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC which is domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii where it is an accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without involving a broker or intermediary. In 2015, approximately 35% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 45% related to property reinsurance coverages.  

General Re’s property/casualty business in North America also includes specialty insurers domiciled in Delaware and Connecticut. General Star is a specialty and surplus lines provider, underwriting a broad array of property, casualty and professional liability business through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general underwriters and program administrators. Genesis is an alternative risk insurance provider, offering solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers. In 2015, the specialty insurers represented approximately 20% of General Re’s North American property/casualty net written premiums.  

General Re’s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct basis (without intermediaries) via General Reinsurance AG as well as several other General Re subsidiaries and branches in 20 countries. Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty reinsurance. In 2015, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote reinsurance on a direct basis in the form of treaties, with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis. International property/casualty business is also written through brokers primarily via Faraday, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Life/Health Reinsurance  

General Re’s North American life/health business operates through two divisions: the individual products division and the group & specialty division in the United States and Canada. The principal business segments include life, disability, supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care. International life/health is segmented by geographic region and transacts business worldwide. The principal business segments include life, disability, critical illness, health and long-term care. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2015, approximately 33% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 22% in Western Europe and the remaining 45% throughout the rest of the world.  

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) operations are based in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through numerous subsidiaries, led by National Indemnity Company (“NICO”) and Columbia Insurance Company (“Columbia”). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. BHRG also offers life reinsurance and annuity contracts through Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”) and financial guaranty insurance through Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation.  

The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms. The level of BHRG’s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large reinsurance transactions.  

BHRG underwrites traditional non-catastrophe property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and facultative reinsurance, and individual primary insurance policies on an excess-of-loss basis for primarily large or otherwise unusual discrete risks, referred to as “individual risk.” BHRG periodically participates in underwriting placements with major brokers in the London Market through a wholly-owned subsidiary based in Great Britain. BHRG’s business is written through intermediary brokers or directly with the insured or reinsured.  

Occasionally, BHRG is party to catastrophe excess-of-loss contracts with large aggregate limits, writes multi-year quota-share contracts, which are expected to produce significant annual premiums or writes retroactive contracts with unusually large limits of indemnification. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such coverages.  

Effective July 1, 2015, NICO entered into a 10-year, 20% quota-share reinsurance agreement with Insurance Australia Group Limited (“IAG”). IAG is a large insurance group that currently writes multiple lines of business in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia Pacific countries.  

BHRG periodically assumes risks under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising from events that have already occurred and that are insured under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is provided on an excess basis or for losses payable immediately after the inception of the contract. Coverage provided is normally subject to large aggregate limits of indemnification. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts.  

Notable retroactive reinsurance contracts written over the last five years include a policy written in 2011 by NICO with Eaglestone Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”), under which NICO agreed to reinsure the bulk of AIG’s U.S. asbestos liabilities up to a maximum limit of indemnification of $3.5 billion. In 2014, NICO also entered into a reinsurance policy with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company (“LMIC”). The agreement provides that NICO reinsure substantially all of LMIC’s unpaid losses and allocated loss adjustment expense liabilities related to (a) asbestos and environmental claims from policies incepting prior to 2005 and (b) workers’ compensation claims occurrences arising prior to January 1, 2014, in excess of an aggregate retention of approximately $12.5 billion and subject to an aggregate limit of $6.5 billion.  

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to occur over very lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under these policies are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds (“float”) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future periods.  

For many years, BHLN has written periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsured existing annuity obligations. Under these policies it receives upfront premiums and makes a stream of annuity payments in the future and payment streams often extend for decades. Similar to retroactive reinsurance contracts, premiums for the annuity business is impacted by time- 

4  

Table of Contents 

 value-of-money concepts and underwriting losses are expected. Since 2010, BHLN has also written reinsurance covering various forms of life insurance.  

Beginning in 2013, BHRG assumed risks associated with guaranteed minimum death, income and other benefits under closed-blocks of variable annuity contracts. The risks assumed under these contracts may extend for decades and are subject to aggregate limits of indemnification. The profitability of this business is dependent on changes in investment values associated with the covered variable annuity contracts, and is also expected to be influenced by the behavior of annuity contract holders, as a result of options available under those contracts. In 2013, BHLN reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death benefit coverages on a closed-block of variable annuity reinsurance contracts that have been in run-off for a number of years under a 100% coinsurance reinsurance treaty with Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (“CGLIC”). The CGLIC contract will remain in force until the expiration of the underlying business, subject to an aggregate limit of indemnification of $3.82 billion.  

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group (“BH Primary”) is a collection of independently managed primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.  

NICO and certain affiliates (“NICO Primary”) underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.  

The “Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies” (“BHHC”) is a group of insurers offering standalone workers’ compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages. BHHC has developed a national reach, with the ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers’ compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state operated workers’ compensation funds. As a result, the volume of workers’ compensation business written in recent years has grown significantly. BHHC serves a diverse client base. BHHC’s business is generated primarily through independent agents and brokers.  

MedPro Group (“MedPro”) is a national leader in offering customized healthcare liability insurance, claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities, all offered through Medical Protective Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. MedPro has provided insurance coverage to protect healthcare providers against losses since 1899. MedPro’s insurance policies are distributed primarily through a nationwide network of appointed agents and brokers.  

U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”) and its subsidiaries are specialty insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market 110 distinct specialty property and casualty insurance products.  

Applied Underwriters, Inc. (“Applied”) is a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and mid-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries principally markets SolutionOne®, a product that bundles workers’ compensation and other employment related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to mid-sized employers. Applied also markets EquityComp® which is a workers’ compensation only product with a profit sharing component targeted to medium-sized employers.  

WestGUARD Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies) provides commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small and mid-sized businesses and is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha, located in Omaha, Nebraska, primarily writes Medicare Supplement insurance and credit insurance.  

Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BH Specialty”) was formed in April 2013. BH Specialty provides primary and excess commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive and professional lines, surety and travel insurance. BH Specialty’s business is written on both an excess and surplus lines basis and an admitted basis in the U.S., and on a locally admitted basis outside the U.S. BH Specialty’s home office is located in Boston, Massachusetts, with U.S. regional offices currently in several cities in the United States and international offices in Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Canada. BH Specialty intends to continue to expand operations in the future. BH Specialty writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Property and casualty loss liabilities  

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish liabilities for estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to “Critical Accounting Policies,” included in Item 7 of this Report.  

The table below presents the development of Berkshire’s net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 2005 through 2014 and net unpaid loss data as of December 31, 2015. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward. Dollar amounts are in millions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.  

6  

Table of Contents 

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the liability reflected in Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.  

Certain workers’ compensation loss liabilities are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring thereafter. In addition, deferred charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate losses payable over the premiums earned. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the estimated claims payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.  

The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid losses, including the impact of changes in related reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The re-estimated amount also reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining ultimate unpaid liabilities. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2015. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances that are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.  

The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other columns because redundancies or deficiencies arising in earlier years are included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the policy incepted, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the policy inception date.  

The third part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, and of the subsequent payments of claims, it should not be assumed that historical experience will continue in the future.  

Investments—Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less the sum of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes. On a consolidated basis, the amount of float has grown from approximately $66 billion at the end of 2010 to approximately $88 billion at the end of 2015, primarily through internal growth. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 71% of the consolidated float as of December 31, 2015. Over the past five years Berkshire’s cost of float was negative, as insurance businesses produced net underwriting gains.  

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other publicly traded companies which are concentrated in relatively few companies and relatively large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government and foreign governments, as well as obligations of corporations, U.S. states and municipalities and mortgage-backed securities. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. However, investment portfolios have historically included a greater proportion of equity investments than is customary in the insurance industry. Management may increase or decrease investments in response to perceived changes in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.  

Railroad Business  

On February 12, 2010, Berkshire completed its acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation through the merger of a wholly-owned merger subsidiary and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. The merger subsidiary was the surviving entity and was renamed Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (“BNSF”). BNSF is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF had approximately 44,000 employees at the end of 2015.  

7  

Table of Contents 

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of BNSF are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. BNSF’s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2015, approximately 31% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 27% from industrial products, 22% from coal and 20% from agricultural products.  

Regulatory Matters  

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction, and the merger with or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF’s business.  

The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law. BNSF Railway is required to transport these commodities to the extent of its common carrier obligation.  

Environmental Matters  

BNSF’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.  

Many of BNSF’s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liabilities for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.  

Competition  

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads seek to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.  

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF’s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2015 was approximately 49.8%.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Utilities and Energy Businesses  

Berkshire currently owns an 89.9% voting common stock interest in Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company (or “BHE”). BHE is an international energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. BHE’s businesses are managed as separate operating units. BHE’s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately 4.7 million retail customers, two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 16,400 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of approximately 7.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and ownership interests in electricity transmission businesses. BHE’s Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity end-users and its electricity transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada serves approximately 85% of Alberta, Canada’s population. BHE’s interests also include a diversified portfolio of independent power projects, the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States. BHE employs approximately 21,000 people in connection with its various operations.  

General Matters  

PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory’s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the combined service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp’s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis.  

MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations, natural gas on a wholesale basis and electricity and natural gas services in deregulated markets.  

NV Energy, Inc. (“NV Energy”), acquired by BHE on December 19, 2013, is an energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company (“Nevada Power”) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (“Sierra Pacific”) (collectively, the “Nevada Utilities”). Nevada Power serves electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities’ combined service territory’s economy includes gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental services. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity and natural gas on a wholesale basis.  

As vertically integrated utilities, BHE’s domestic utilities own approximately 26,000 net megawatts of generation capacity in operation and under construction. There are seasonal variations in these businesses that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter months.  

The Great Britain utilities consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc, which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of their distribution systems.  

BHE acquired AltaLink L.P. (“AltaLink”) on December 1, 2014. AltaLink is a regulated electric transmission-only utility company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. AltaLink connects generation plants to major load centers, cities and large industrial plants throughout its 87,000 square mile service territory. AltaLink receives all of its regulated transmission tariffs from the Alberta Electric System Operator (“AESO”) based on tariffs approved by the Alberta Utilities Commission (“AUC”).  

The natural gas pipelines consist of Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural”) and Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”). Northern Natural is based in Nebraska and owns the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from southern Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural’s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural’s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural’s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Kern River is based in Utah and owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,700 miles and extends from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric utilities and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electricity generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and financial institutions.  

BHE Renewables is based in Iowa and owns interests in independent power projects that are in service or under construction in California, Illinois, Texas, Nebraska, New York, Arizona, the Philippines, Kansas and Hawaii. These independent power projects sell power generated primarily from solar, wind, geothermal and hydro sources under long-term contracts.  

Regulatory Matters  

PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”), the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.  

With certain limited exceptions, BHE’s domestic utilities have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. In some jurisdictions, certain classes of customers may choose to purchase all or a portion of their energy from alternative energy suppliers, and in some jurisdictions retail customers can generate all or a portion of their own energy. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility’s reasonable costs of providing services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.  

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current eight-year price control period runs from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023.  

AltaLink is regulated by the AUC, pursuant to the Electric Utilities Act (Alberta), the Public Utilities Act (Alberta), the Alberta Utilities Commission Act (Alberta) and the Hydro and Electric Energy Act (Alberta). The AUC is an independent quasi-judicial agency with broad authority that may impact many of AltaLink’s activities, including its tariffs, rates, construction, operations and financing. Under the Electric Utilities Act, AltaLink prepares and files applications with the AUC for approval of tariffs to be paid by the AESO for the use of its transmission facilities, and the terms and conditions governing the use of those facilities. The AESO is the independent system operator in Alberta, Canada that oversees Alberta’s integrated electrical system (“AIES”) and wholesale electricity market. The AESO is responsible for directing the safe, reliable and economic operation of the AIES, including long-term transmission system planning.  

The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administrated by the Office of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency within the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.  

Environmental Matters  

BHE and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.  

10  

Table of Contents 

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation’s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of BHE’s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.  

Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean energy standards, which include low-carbon, non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.  

In December 2015, an international agreement was negotiated by 195 nations to create a universal framework for coordinated action on climate change in what is referred to as the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement reaffirms the goal of limiting global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius, while urging efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius; establishes commitments by all parties to make nationally determined contributions and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the commitments; commits all countries to submit emissions inventories and report regularly on their emissions and progress made in implementing and achieving their nationally determined commitments; and commits all countries to submit new commitments every five years, with the expectation that the commitments will get more aggressive. In the context of the Paris Agreement, the United States agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26% to 28% by 2025 from 2005 levels. The cornerstone of the United States commitment is the Clean Power Plan, which was finalized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) in August 2015. The Clean Power Plan established the Best System of Emission Reduction to include: (a) heat rate improvements; (b) increased utilization of existing combined-cycle natural gas-fueled generating facilities; and (c) increased deployment of new and incremental non-carbon generation placed in service after 2012. Applying the Best System of Emission Reduction, the EPA established uniform subcategory specific emission performance rates of 771 pounds per megawatt hour for natural gas combined cycle units and 1,305 pounds per megawatt hour for coal-fueled generating units and utilized these emission rates to establish the applicable state-by-state emission rates. The Clean Power Plan begins in 2022 and implements interim compliance periods and emission rates which, in 2030, would achieve an overall reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units of 32% below 2005 levels. States may implement rate-based plans that limit the pounds per megawatt hour their effected generating units can emit or mass-based plans that limit the total tons of emissions from affected sources. States may opt to allow their affected units to engage in emission trading in either a mass- or rate-based plan. States are required to submit initial plans to the EPA by September 6, 2016, but may request an extension to September 6, 2018, to submit their final plans. However, on February 9, 2016, the United States Supreme Court ordered that the EPA’s emission guidelines for existing sources be stayed pending the disposition of the challenges to the rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals and any action on a writ of certiorari before the United States Supreme Court. The full impacts of the final rule or the federal plan on BHE and its energy subsidiaries cannot be determined until the outcome of the pending litigation and subsequent appeals, the development and implementation of state plans, and finalization of the federal plan.  

BHE continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, as of December 31, 2015, BHE has invested $16 billion in solar, wind, geothermal and biomass generation.  

Non-Energy Businesses  

BHE also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”), the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 31 residential real estate brand names with over 26,000 sales associates in over 475 brokerage offices in 27 states.  

In October 2012, HomeServices acquired a 66.7% interest in one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States, which offers and sells independently owned and operated residential real estate brokerage franchises. HomeServices’ franchise network currently includes over 400 franchisees in over 1,400 brokerage offices in 48 states with over 44,000 sales associates under three brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, Prudential or Real Living brand names and other related service marks. In 2013, HomeServices began rebranding certain of its Prudential franchisees as Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices. As of December 31, 2015, over 220 franchisees have been rebranded.  

HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Manufacturing Businesses  

Berkshire’s numerous and diverse manufacturing businesses are grouped into three categories: (1) industrial products, (2) building products and (3) consumer products. Berkshire’s industrial products businesses manufacture specialty chemicals, metal cutting tools, and a variety of other products primarily for industrial use. The building products group produces flooring products, insulation, roofing and engineered products, building and engineered components, paint and coatings and bricks and masonry products that are primarily used in building and construction applications. The consumer products group manufactures recreational vehicles, various apparel products, jewelry and custom picture framing products. Information concerning these activities follows.  

Industrial products  

Specialty chemicals  

In September 2011, Berkshire acquired The Lubrizol Corporation (“Lubrizol”). Lubrizol is a specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial, oilfield and consumer markets. Since 2011, Lubrizol has completed a number of bolt-on acquisitions. On September 4, 2015, Lubrizol completed the acquisition of Particle Sciences, a leading contract drug development and manufacturing organization. On December 31, 2014, Lubrizol acquired Warwick Chemicals, a leading global developer, producer and supplier of stain removal technology with hygiene benefits for fabric care applications. On December 31, 2014, Lubrizol completed the acquisition in the United States and Canada of Weatherford International’s global oilfield chemicals business, known as Engineered Chemistry and its United States drilling fluids business, known as Integrity Industries. In 2015 and 2016, Lubrizol also acquired or will acquire Weatherford’s Engineered Chemistry business in other parts of the world.  

Lubrizol currently operates in three business sectors: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine additives, driveline additives and industrial specialties products; (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes personal and home care, engineered polymers, performance coatings, and life science solutions; and (3) Lubrizol Oilfield Solutions, which includes oilfield specialty chemicals and pipeline flow improvers. Lubrizol’s products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline lubricants, fuel additives, refineries and oilfields, pipelines, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants, greases for transportation and industrial applications, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, performance coatings, personal care products, sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes. Its principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. The advanced materials industry is highly fragmented with a variety of competitors in each product line. Principal oilfield chemicals competitors include Nalco Energy Services, Baker Hughes Inc., Schlumberger Ltd., and Halliburton Company.  

From a base of approximately 2,950 patents, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and formulation expertise to improve the quality, value and performance of its products, as well as to help minimize the environmental impact of those products. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes and uses base oil in processing and blending additives. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability. Lubrizol operates facilities in 32 countries (including production facilities in 18 countries and laboratories in 16 countries).  

Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors. Lubrizol’s customers principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located in more than 120 countries. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. In 2015, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Lubrizol’s consolidated revenues.  

Lubrizol continues to implement a multi-year phased investment plan to upgrade operations, ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements and increase global manufacturing capacity. As part of the investment plan, Lubrizol has invested approximately $200 million to increase chlorinated polyvinyl chloride resin and compounding capacity to meet global customer demand.  

On February 26, 2014, Berkshire completed an acquisition of Phillips 66’s flow improver business, which is a global supplier of pipeline flow improver products. The business was renamed Lubrizol Specialty Products, Inc. and is independently managed by a separate management team overseen by Lubrizol.  

Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing waste and emissions. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the risk of environmental damage and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing environmental risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Metal cutting tools  

Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V. (“IMC”) in 2006. On April 29, 2013, Berkshire acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interests of IMC. Through its subsidiaries, IMC is one of the world’s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC’s principal brand names include ISCAR®, TaeguTec®, Ingersoll®, Tungaloy®, Unitac®, UOP®, It.te.di®, Tool—Flo® and Outiltec®. IMC’s manufacturing facilities are located mainly in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.  

IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufacturers to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers.  

IMC’s global sales and marketing network has representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC’s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea, Japan and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.  

IMC competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinational businesses (such as Sandvik and Kennametal, Inc.) with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.  

Other industrial products  

In 2008, Berkshire acquired approximately 64% of the outstanding common stock of Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”), a private company then owned by trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family. Since that time, Berkshire has acquired substantially all of the remaining outstanding common stock. Marmon is currently comprised of four autonomous companies consisting of fifteen diverse business sectors and approximately 180 independent manufacturing and service businesses. Marmon operates approximately 350 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities, which are located primarily in the United States, as well as in 22 other countries worldwide. Marmon’s transportation equipment manufacturing, repair and leasing businesses under UTLX Company are discussed later in Item 1 under Finance and Financial Products businesses. Marmon’s other diversified manufacturing and service operations are referred to as “Marmon manufacturing” and discussed further below.  

Marmon manufacturing includes Marmon Engineered Components Company (“Engineered Components”), Marmon Food, Beverage & Water Company (“Food, Beverage & Water”), Marmon Retail & Highway Technologies Company (“Retail & Highway”) and the Engineered Wire & Cable operations within Marmon Energy Services Company (“Energy Services”). The Engineered Wire & Cable sector supplies electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries.  

Engineered Components includes the following three sectors: Distribution Services provides specialty metal pipe, tubing, and beams and related value-added services to markets such as construction, aerospace, industrial, and many others; Tubings, Fittings & Wire Products supplies electrical building wire, copper tube for the plumbing, HVAC and refrigeration markets, and aluminum tubing, brass fittings and valves for many commercial and industrial applications; and Industrial Products provides construction fasteners, fastener coatings, custom-machined aluminum and brass forgings for construction, recreation and other industries, hand and arm protective wear, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets, and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems.  

Food, Beverage & Water includes the following three sectors: Foodservice Technologies supplies commercial food preparation equipment for restaurants and fast food chains; Beverage Technologies produces beverage dispensing and cooling equipment to foodservice retailers as well as on-shelf management systems for single-serve beverages and a wide range of pre-tooled stock solutions for in-store applications; and Water Technologies manufactures and markets residential water softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.  

Retail & Highway includes the following five sectors: Retail Store Equipment provides shelving systems, merchandising displays, shopping carts, and other related services to retail stores in addition to material handling and security carts and automation equipment for several other industries; Retail Science delivers retail market solutions to brands and retailers including merchandising displays, in-store digital merchandising and marketing programs; Retail Products supplies a variety of  

13  

Table of Contents 

 products through the home center and retail channels, including electrical building wire, plumbing tube, extension cords, work and garden gloves, and air compressors along with related tools and accessories; Highway Components serves both the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with fifth wheel coupling solutions and wheel-end products such as brake drums, and the light vehicle aftermarket with clutches and related products; and Trailer & Truck Products and Services primarily serves the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, undercarriage products such as severe duty axles and suspension systems, and truck modification services.  

CTB International Corp. (“CTB”), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers in more than 100 countries primarily through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.  

The Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The most significant of these businesses are Kirby home care systems and related businesses.  

Berkshire’s industrial products manufacturers employ approximately 40,000 persons in the aggregate.  

Berkshire acquired Precision Castparts Corp. (“PCC”) on January 29, 2016. PCC manufactures complex metal components and products, provides high-quality investment castings, forgings, fasteners/fastener systems and aerostructures for critical aerospace and power and energy applications. PCC also provides seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine (“IGT”) and nuclear power plants; downhole casing, clad pipe, fittings and various mill forms in a variety of nickel and steel alloys for severe-service oil and gas environments; investment castings and forgings for general industrial, armament, medical and other applications; nickel and titanium alloys in all standard mill forms from large ingots and billets to plate, foil, sheet, strip, tubing, bar, rod, extruded shapes, rod-in-coil, wire and welding consumables, as well as cobalt alloys, for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas, pollution control and other industries; revert management solutions; fasteners for automotive and general industrial markets; specialty alloys for the investment casting and forging industries; heat treating and destructive testing services for the investment cast products and forging industries; refiner plates, screen cylinders and other products for the pulp and paper industry; grinder pumps and affiliated components for low-pressure sewer systems; critical auxiliary equipment and gas monitoring systems for the power generation industry; and metalworking tools for the fastener market and other applications.  

Investment casting technology involves a multi-step process that uses ceramic molds in the manufacture of metal components with more complex shapes, closer tolerances and finer surface finishes than parts manufactured using other casting methods. PCC uses this process to manufacture products for aircraft engines, IGT and other aeroderivative engines, airframes, medical implants, armament, unmanned aerial vehicles and other industrial applications. PCC also manufactures high temperature carbon and ceramic composite components, including ceramic matrix composites, for use in next-generation aerospace engines.  

PCC uses forging processes to manufacture components for the aerospace and power generation markets, including seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine and nuclear power plants, and downhole casings and clad pipe for severe service oil and gas markets. PCC manufactures high-performance, nickel-based alloys used to produce forged components for aerospace and non-aerospace applications in such markets as oil and gas, chemical processing and pollution control. The titanium products are used to manufacture components for the commercial and military aerospace, power generation, energy, and industrial end markets.  

PCC is also a leading developer and manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, fastener systems, aerostructures and precision components, primarily for critical aerospace applications. These products are produced for the aerospace and power and energy markets, as well as for construction, automotive, heavy truck farm machinery, mining and construction equipment, shipbuilding, machine tools, medical equipment, appliances and recreation markets.  

The majority of sales to customers are made on individual purchase orders generated from long-term agreements. Most orders are subject to termination by the customer upon payment of the cost of work in process, plus a related profit factor. PCC typically does not experience significant order cancellations, although periodically it receives requests for delays in delivery schedules.  

PCC is subject to substantial competition in all of its markets. Components and similar products can be produced by competitors using either the same types of manufacturing processes or other forms of manufacturing. Although PCC believes its manufacturing processes, technology and experience provide advantages to its customers, such as high quality, competitive prices and physical properties that often meet more stringent demands, alternative forms of manufacturing can be used to produce many of the same components and products. Despite intense competition, PCC is a leading supplier in most of its principal markets. Several factors, including long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise, state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated employees, aid PCC in maintaining competitive advantages.  

14  

Table of Contents 

A number of raw materials in its products, including certain metals such as nickel, titanium, cobalt, tantalum and molybdenum, are found in only a few parts of the world. These metals are required for the alloys used in manufactured products. The availability and costs of these metals may be influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes in world politics, labor relations between the metal producers and their work forces, and/or unstable governments in exporting nations and inflation.  

Building Products  

Flooring  

Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,600 styles of tufted carpet, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and sells ceramic and vinyl tile along with sheet vinyl. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw’s carpet and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw operates Shaw Sports Turf and Southwest Greens International, LLC (acquired in 2011) which provide synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf products. During 2014, Shaw exited the woven rug business.  

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 31,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,500 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s seven carpet, four hard surface and one sample full-service distribution facilities and 25 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt and efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.  

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2015, Shaw processed approximately 99% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but costs are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.  

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 50% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.  

Insulation, roofing and engineered products  

Johns Manville (“JM”) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, industrial insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe insulation, filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiberglass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 44 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM operates in a highly competitive market, with competitors comprised primarily of several large global and national manufacturers and smaller regional manufacturers. JM holds leadership positions in the key markets that it serves. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. Sales of JM’s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.  

Building and engineering components  

MiTek Industries, Inc. (“MiTek”) is based in Chesterfield, Missouri and operates in three separate segments: residential, commercial and industrial. The residential market has operations in 20 countries, where MiTek is the world’s leading supplier of engineered connector products, construction hardware, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss component segment of the building components industry. MiTek’s primary customers are component manufacturers who manufacture prefabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market. MiTek also sells construction hardware to commercial distributors and do-it-yourself retail stores under the USP® Structural Connectors name.  

15  

Table of Contents 

MiTek’s commercial segment includes products and services sold to the commercial construction industry. The commercial market product offering includes curtain wall systems (Benson Industries, Inc.), anchoring systems for masonry and stone (Hohmann & Barnard, Inc.), light gauge steel framing products (Aegis Metal Framing Division of MiTek USA, Inc.), engineering services for a proprietary high-performance steel frame connection (SidePlate Systems, Inc.) and a comprehensive range of round, rectangular, oval and spiral ductwork for the ventilation market (M&M Manufacturing, Inc.).  

MiTek’s industrial segment includes the following products and services: automated machinery for the battery manufacturing industry (TBS Engineering, Ltd.), highly customized air handling systems sold to commercial, institutional and industrial markets (TMI Climate Solutions, Inc.), design and supply of Nuclear Safety Related HVAC systems and components (Ellis & Watts Global Industries, Inc.), energy recovery and dehumidification systems for commercial applications (Heat-Pipe Technology, Inc.) and pre-engineered and pre-fabricated custom structural mezzanines and platforms for distribution and manufacturing facilities (Cubic Designs, Inc.).  

MiTek operates worldwide with sales in over 100 countries and with manufacturing facilities and/or sales/engineering offices located in 20 countries.  

Paint and coatings  

Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-based and solvent-based general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including, but not limited to, Aura®, Natura®, Regal®, Super Spec®, MoorGard®, ben®, Coronado®, Corotech®, Insl-x® and Lenmar®.  

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for distribution of its products. Benjamin Moore’s distribution network includes approximately 16 company-owned stores as well as over 3,300 independent retailers currently representing over 5,000 storefronts in the United States and Canada. A majority of Benjamin Moore’s company-owned stores were divested to the independent dealer channel subsequent to the end of the year. The independent dealer channel offers a broad array of products including Benjamin Moore®, Coronado® and Insl-x® brands and other competitor coatings, wall coverings, window treatments and sundries. In addition, Benjamin Moore operates an on-line “pick up in store” program, which allows consumers to place orders via an e-commerce site or for national accounts and government agencies via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer’s nearest dealer.  

Bricks and masonry products  

Acme Brick Company (“Acme”) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick®), concrete block (Featherlite) and cut limestone (Texas Quarries). In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries distribute a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.  

Acme and its affiliates operate 26 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in eight states, six concrete block facilities in Texas and two stone fabrication facilities located in Texas and Alabama. In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries operate a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility, all located in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the level of construction activity, which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme’s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.  

Demand for products of Berkshire’s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of housing construction. The building products businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Berkshire’s building products manufacturers employ approximately 37,000 people in the aggregate.  

Consumer Products  

Apparel  

Fruit, Russell and VFB (together “FOL”) are headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear, athletic apparel and hardgoods. Products, under the Fruit of the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise, mid-tier chains and wholesale markets. In the VFB product line,  

16  

Table of Contents 

 Vassarette® and Curvation® are sold in the mass merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold to mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; collegiate licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. Additionally, Spalding® markets and sells balls in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2015, approximately 41% of FOL’s sales were to Wal-Mart. In 2015, FOL exited an unprofitable intimate apparel business in Europe.  

FOL generally performs its own knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American market which comprised about 78% of FOL’s net sales in 2015, the majority of its cloth manufacturing was performed in Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. FOL’s bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.  

U.S. grown cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL’s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Additionally in 2015, FOL entered into an agreement with one key supplier to provide the majority of FOL’s yarn spinning/raw material conversion services. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials and yarn. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton to meet the majority of its production plans for 2016. FOL’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon product features, quality, customer service and price.  

Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark Garanimals® and customer private label brands. Garan also licenses its registered trademark Garanimals® to third parties for apparel and non-apparel products. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States with sales to Wal-Mart representing over 90% of its sales. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony Lama®, Nocona®, Chippewa®, BØRN®, B•Ø•C®, Carolina®, Söfft, Double-H Boots®, Eürosoft®, and Comfortiva®. Brooks Sports markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers and directly to consumers under the Brooks® brand. Since 2011, Brooks® has maintained a #1 market share position in the running specialty channel in the United States. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.  

Other consumer products  

Forest River, Inc. (“Forest River”) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility cargo trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has manufacturing facilities in six states.  

Albecca Inc. (“Albecca”), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, does business primarily under the Larson-Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 13 countries outside of North America.  

Richline Group, Inc. is the business platform providing financial, operations and marketing support to its four independent strategic business units: Richline Jewelry, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is uniquely a manufacturer and distributor of jewelry with precious metal and non-precious metal products to specific target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers.  

Berkshire’s consumer products manufacturers employ approximately 50,000 persons in the aggregate.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Service and Retailing Businesses  

Service Businesses  

Berkshire’s service businesses provide professional aviation training programs, fractional aircraft ownership programs and wholesale distribution of electronic components. Other service businesses include a variety of media related businesses (newspaper, television and information distribution), franchising and servicing a large system of quick service restaurants, as well as steel service and logistics businesses. Berkshire’s service businesses employ approximately 22,000 people in the aggregate. Information concerning these activities follows.  

Aviation training programs  

FlightSafety International Inc. (“FlightSafety”), headquartered at New York’s LaGuardia Airport, is an industry leader in professional aviation training services to individuals, businesses (including certain commercial aviation companies) and U.S. and foreign governments. FlightSafety primarily provides high technology training to pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. FlightSafety operates a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at its learning centers and training locations in the United States, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Japan, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of FlightSafety’s instructors, training programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies around the world.  

FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems, displays and other advanced technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using state-of-the-art technology and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.  

Fractional aircraft ownership programs  

NetJets Inc. (“NetJets”) is the world’s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. NetJets’ executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NetJets’ European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. Operations in China are based in the Zhuhai Guangdong Province. The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or add capacity for peak periods, and for others that previously chartered aircraft.  

NetJets’ fractional aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allow customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and aviation solutions that provide aircraft management, ground support and flight operation services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares™, NetJets Leases™ and the Marquis Jet Card®. In 2010, NetJets introduced the NetJets Signature Series™ of aircraft, which have been customized from design through production based on input received from aircraft owners.  

NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Institute of Civil Aviation of Portugal, the European Aviation Safety Agency and the Civil Aviation Administration of China. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues and other matters. NetJets places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, low and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.  

Electronics distribution  

TTI, Inc. (“TTI”), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical and discrete components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI’s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military and commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI’s business model covers design through production in the electronic component supply chain and consists of its core business, which supports high volume production business and its Mouser division, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases.  

18  

Table of Contents 

TTI’s distribution agreements with the industry’s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel. In 2012, TTI acquired Sager Electrical Supply Company, Inc. (“Sager”), a leading distributor of electronic components headquartered in Middleborough, Massachusetts. Sager’s business is focused on becoming a power specialist in the electronics distribution market. During the past two years, PowerGate, LLC and Norvell Electronics, Inc. were acquired to strengthen Sager’s value-added sales capabilities as well as market position as a power specialist in the North American market.  

Other services  

Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages. Approximately 87% of Business Wire’s revenues derive from its core news distribution business. The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. (“BHMG”) are publishers of 33 daily and 47 weekly newspapers in upstate New York, New Jersey, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama and Florida. The newspapers operate primarily in small to mid-sized markets with strong local community connections. On June 30, 2014, Berkshire acquired WPLG, Inc. an ABC affiliate broadcast station in Miami, Florida from Graham Holdings Company.  

International Dairy Queen develops and services a worldwide system of over 6,700 stores operating primarily under the names DQ Grill and Chill®, Dairy Queen® and Orange Julius® that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods and blended fruit drinks. Precision Steel operates a steel service center in the Chicago metropolitan area. The service center buys stainless steel, low carbon sheet and strip steel, coated metals, spring steel and other metals, cuts these metals to order, and sells them to customers involved in a wide variety of industries.  

On December 12, 2014, Berkshire acquired Charter Brokerage (“Charter”), a leading non-asset based third party logistics provider to the petroleum and chemical industries. Charter service offerings include customs clearance, drawback of duties and taxes and fees, freight forwarding, marine logistics, trading and administration of foreign trade zone storage and distribution facilities. Charter’s business activities are primarily subject to U.S. Customs laws and regulations, which deal with the import and export of goods and the assessment of related tariffs and taxes. Charter’s offices are located in Connecticut, Texas, New York, Florida, Louisiana and Alberta, Canada.  

McLane Company  

McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) provides wholesale distribution services in all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), which accounts for approximately 24% of McLane’s revenues. McLane’s other significant customers include 7-Eleven and Yum! Brands, which produced over 10% of McLane’s revenues in 2015. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart or its other significant customers could have a material adverse impact on McLane’s periodic revenues and earnings. McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and stringent expense controls. Operations are currently divided into three business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution and beverage distribution. In 2015, the grocery and foodservice units comprised approximately 98.5% of the total revenues of the company.  

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to approximately 47,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 23 facilities in 19 states.  

McLane’s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services approximately 21,000 chain restaurants nationwide. On August 24, 2012, McLane acquired Meadowbrook Meat Company (MBM). MBM, based in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, is a large customized foodservice distributor for national restaurant chains operating from 35 distribution facilities in 16 states. MBM services approximately 15,000 chain restaurants nationwide.  

Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates several wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are conducted through 13 distribution centers in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Colorado. These beverage units, Empire Distributors, Horizon Wine & Spirits, Delta Wholesale Liquors and Baroness Small Estates, service approximately 23,000 retail locations in the Southeastern United States and Colorado.  

McLane and its subsidiaries employ approximately 22,500 associates.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Retailing Businesses  

Berkshire’s retailing businesses principally include automotive, home furnishings and several other operations that sell various consumer products. These businesses have approximately 29,500 employees. Information regarding each of these operations follows.  

Automotive retailing  

In the first quarter of 2015, Berkshire acquired a group of affiliated companies referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Automotive Group, Inc. (BHA). BHA is the 4th largest automotive retailer in the United States, operating 111 new vehicle franchises through 83 dealerships located primarily in major metropolitan markets in the United States. The dealerships sell new and used vehicles, vehicle maintenance and repair services, extended service contracts, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products. BHA also arranges financing for our customers’ vehicle purchases through third-party lenders and the manufacturers’ captive finance sources. BHA operates 31 collision service centers directly connected to the dealerships’ operations and owns and operates two auto auctions, a fluid maintenance products distribution company and is the administrator of a loan payment program.  

Dealership operations are highly concentrated in the Arizona and Texas markets, with approximately 70% of dealership-related revenues derived from sales in these markets. BHA currently maintains franchise agreements with 27 different vehicle manufacturers, although it derives a significant portion of its revenue from the Toyota/Lexus, General Motors, Ford/Lincoln, Nissan/Infiniti and Honda/Acura brands. Over 85% of BHA’s revenues are from dealerships representing these manufacturers.  

The retail automotive industry is highly competitive. BHA faces competition from other large public and private dealership groups, as well as individual franchised dealerships and competition via the Internet. Given the pricing transparency available via the Internet, and the fact that franchised dealers acquire vehicles from the manufacturers on the same terms irrespective of volume, the location and quality of the dealership facility, customer service and transaction speed are key differentiators in attracting customers and driving revenue.  

Our overall relationships with the manufacturers are governed by framework agreements. The framework agreements contain provisions relating to the management, operation, acquisition and the ownership structure of franchised automotive dealerships. Failure to meet the terms of these agreements could adversely impact BHA’s ability to make further acquisitions of such manufacturers’ stores. Additionally, these agreements contain limitations on the number of dealerships from a specific manufacturer that may be acquired or owned by us.  

Individual dealerships operate under franchise agreements with the manufacturer, which grants the dealership entity a non-exclusive right to sell the manufacturer’s brand of vehicles and offer related parts and service within a specified market area, as well as the right to the manufacturer’s trademarks. The agreements contain various operational requirements and restrictions related to the management and operation of the franchised dealership and provide for termination of the agreement by the manufacturer or non-renewal for a variety of causes. The states generally have automotive dealership franchise laws that provide substantial protection to the franchisee, and it is very difficult for a manufacturer to terminate or not renew a franchise agreement outside of bankruptcy or with “good cause” under the applicable state franchise law.  

BHA owns approximately 6.1 million square feet of buildings and 994 acres of land that are leased to the BHA dealerships on a triple net basis. BHA also develops, underwrites and administers the various vehicle protection plans, life and accident and health insurance plans sold to consumers through the dealerships on products sold by BHA’s dealerships as well as third party dealerships. BHA also develops proprietary training programs and materials, and provides ongoing monitoring and training of the dealership’s finance and insurance personnel.  

Home furnishings retailing  

The home furnishings businesses are Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”) and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.  

NFM operates its business from three very large retail complexes with almost 2.8 million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, Kansas City, Kansas and The Colony, Texas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of these markets. The Colony, Texas store opened in 2015 and includes retail space of approximately 560,000 square feet. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space. R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey currently operates 11 retail stores and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.3 million square feet of retail space with six stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Star’s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from six locations with approximately 755,000 square feet of retail space in stores located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and a newly-opened store in New Haven, Connecticut. The retail stores are supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton, Massachusetts. Jordan’s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.  

Other retailing  

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheims”) operates from a single store in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg”) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 227 retail jewelry stores in 36 states, which includes approximately 500,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg’s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds® or Helzberg Diamonds Outlet®. The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 87 upscale retail jewelry stores located in 11 states primarily in the Western United States and in British Columbia, Canada. Thirty-three of its retail locations are concept stores that sell only PANDORA jewelry. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with over one-third of 2014 annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.  

See’s Candies (“See’s”) produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California. See’s operates approximately 245 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with nearly half of its annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.  

The Pampered Chef (“TPC”) is a premier direct seller of high quality kitchen tools with operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. TPC product portfolio consists of approximately 440 TPC branded items in twelve categories, which are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. TPC products are available primarily through a sales force of independent consultants.  

Oriental Trading Company (“OTC”) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party supplies, arts and crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies, educational games and patient giveaways. OTC, headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually, including consumers, schools, churches, non-profit organizations, medical and dental offices and other businesses. OTC operates a number of websites and utilizes multiple print and online marketing efforts.  

On April 30, 2015, Berkshire acquired Detlev Louis Motorrad (“DLM”) which is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany. DLM is a leading retailer of motorcycle apparel and equipment in Europe. DLM carries over 32,000 different products from more than 600 manufacturers, primarily covering the clothing, technical equipment and leisure segments. DLM has over 70 stores in Germany and Austria and also sells through catalogs and via the Internet throughout most of Europe.  

Finance and Financial Products  

Berkshire’s finance and financial products activities include an integrated manufactured housing and finance business, leasing of transportation equipment, and furniture leasing. Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses employ approximately 23,000 people in the aggregate. Information concerning these activities follows.  

Manufactured housing and finance  

Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31, 2015, Clayton operated 36 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,726 retailers, including 331 company-owned home centers. Financing is offered through its finance subsidiaries to purchasers of Clayton’s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers.  

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are supported by Clayton’s offering of various financing and insurance programs.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Financing programs support company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed and include gross income, debt to income limits, consideration of residual income and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Approximately 69% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 31% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is approximately 17%, which may be from cash, trade or land equity. Certain loan types require an independent third-party valuation; additionally, if land is involved in the transaction it is independently appraised in order to establish the value of the land only or the home and the land as a package. Originations are all at fixed rates and for fixed terms. Loans outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and services housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.  

Transportation Equipment Leasing  

UTLX Company (“UTLX”), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, operates railcar, crane, intermodal tank container, manufacturing and service businesses under several brand names. Union Tank Car is a leading designer, builder and full-service lessor of tank cars and other specialized railcars. Union Tank Car and its Canadian affiliate Procor own a fleet of over 133,000 railcars which they lease to chemical, petrochemical, energy and agricultural/food customers across North America, supported by railcar repair facilities and mobile units. Union Tank Car also manufactures tank cars in two U.S. plants. Sterling Crane in Canada and the U.S. and Freo Group in Australia are major mobile crane service providers with a total fleet of approximately 1,000 cranes primarily serving energy, mining and petrochemical markets. EXSIF Worldwide is a leading international lessor of intermodal tank containers with a fleet of approximately 46,000 units primarily serving chemical producers and logistics operators. UTLX also operates several other manufacturing and service businesses including Enersul, Penn Machine, Railserve, Trackmobile, Uni-Form Components and McKenzie Valve, which serve domestic and international customers primarily in the transportation and energy industries.  

UTLX has a large number of customers diversified both geographically and across industries. UTLX, while subject to cyclicality and significant competition in all of its markets, successfully competes by offering a broad range of high quality products and services targeted at its niche markets from geographically strategic locations. Railcars and intermodal tank containers are usually leased for multiple-year terms and most of the leases are renewed upon expiration. As a result of selective ongoing capital investment and high maintenance standards, utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) of UTLX’s railcar, crane and intermodal tank container equipment remains relatively high over time. While tank cars operate in a highly regulated environment in North America, regulatory changes are not expected to materially impact UTLX’s operational capability, competitive position, or financial strength.  

XTRA Corporation (“XTRA”), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 76,000 units located at 53 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing equipment. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA’s utilization rates and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.  

Furniture Leasing  

CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry.  

Finance  

BH Finance LLC invests in fixed-income and equity instruments. BH Finance LLC has also entered into derivative contracts involving foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. However, such derivative contracts are currently comprised of equity index contracts and a credit default contract that were entered into in 2009 and prior years. These activities are managed from Berkshire’s corporate headquarters. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in general.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses  

The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 23 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s investments in fixed maturity securities, equity securities and other investments is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Since June 2013, Berkshire has maintained significant investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Company (now The Kraft Heinz Company). Information concerning these investments is included in Note 6 to the Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Kraft Heinz is the third-largest food and beverage company in North America and the fifth-largest food and beverage company in the world, with eight brands generating annual revenues of $1 billion or more. Kraft Heinz provides products with high quality, great taste and nutrition for all eating occasions whether at home, in restaurants or on the go. Kraft Heinz’s iconic brands include: Kraft, Heinz, ABC, Capri Sun, Classico, Jell-O, Kool-Aid, Lunchables, Maxwell House, Ore-Ida, Oscar Mayer, Philadelphia, Planters, Plasmon, Quero, Weight Watchers Smart Ones and Velveeta.  

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors