Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Berkshire and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in its business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are presently unknown or are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.  

We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation decisions.  

Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 85, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 92. If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has identified certain current Berkshire subsidiary managers who, in their judgment, are capable of succeeding Mr. Buffett. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that the Board’s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.  

We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various businesses.  

In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct day-to-day business activities of our operating subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries also need qualified and competent personnel in executing their business plans and serving their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively impact our operating subsidiaries ability to meet demands of customers to supply goods and services. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is important to all of our operations. Although we have adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for goods and services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  

23  

Table of Contents 

The past growth rate in Berkshire’s book value per share is not an indication of future results.  

In the years since our present management acquired control of Berkshire, our book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of our capital base (Berkshire shareholders’ equity of approximately $255 billion as of December 31, 2015), our book value per share will very likely not increase in the future at a rate close to its past rate.  

Investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.  

We concentrate a high percentage of the investments of our insurance subsidiaries in a small number of equity securities and diversify our investment portfolios far less than is conventional in the insurance industry. A significant decline in the fair values of our larger investments may produce a material decline in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and our consolidated book value per share. Under certain circumstances, significant declines in the fair values of these investments may require the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment losses.  

Since a large percentage of our investments are held in our insurance subsidiaries, a decrease in the fair values of our investments could produce a large decline in statutory surplus. Our large statutory surplus is a competitive advantage, and a material decline could have a materially adverse affect on our ability to write new insurance business thus affecting our future underwriting profitability.  

Competition and technology may erode our business franchises and result in lower earnings.  

Each of our operating businesses face intense competitive pressures within markets in which they operate. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results in the future may decline from current levels.  

Deterioration of general economic conditions may significantly reduce our operating earnings and impair our ability to access capital markets at a reasonable cost.  

Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the economy deteriorates for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses, our railroad business and our manufactured housing business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the capital markets is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.  

Terrorist acts against the United States could hurt our operating businesses.  

A successful (as defined by the aggressor) cyber, biological, nuclear or chemical attack against the United States could produce significant losses to our worldwide operations. Our business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources or destruction of production facilities and information systems. This is a risk that we share with all U.S. based businesses.  

Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.  

In recent years, partially in response to financial markets crises, global economic recessions, and social and environmental issues, regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States and abroad. Such initiatives address for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, environmental and global-warming matters and health care reform. These initiatives impact not only our regulated insurance, energy and railroad transportation businesses, but also our manufacturing, services, retailing and financing businesses. Increased regulatory compliance costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating businesses, as well as on the businesses in which we have a significant but not controlling economic interest. We cannot predict whether such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Cyber security risks  

We rely on information technology in virtually all aspects of our business. A significant disruption or failure of our information technology systems could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against intruders, and other operational difficulties. Attacks perpetrated against our information systems could result in loss of assets and critical information and exposes us to remediation costs and reputational damage.  

Although we have taken steps intended to mitigate these risks, including business continuity planning, disaster recovery planning and business impact analysis, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion could lead to misappropriation of assets or data corruption and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, if we are unable to acquire or implement new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  

Cyber attacks could further adversely affect our ability to operate facilities, information technology and business systems, or compromise confidential customer and employee information. Political, economic, social or financial market instability or damage to or interference with our operating assets, or our customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions, lost revenue, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption, unstable markets, increased security and repair or other costs, any of which may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, sustained or significant cyber attacks, or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital.  

Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant losses.  

We have assumed the risk of potentially significant losses under equity index put option and credit default contracts. Although we received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums we received will exceed our aggregate loss or settlement payments. Risks of losses under our equity index put option contracts are based on declines in equity prices of stocks comprising certain major stock indexes. When these contracts expire beginning in 2018, we could be required to make significant payments if equity index prices are significantly below the strike prices specified in the contracts. Our risks under credit default contracts are currently limited to specified municipalities. The deterioration of the financial condition of the referenced municipalities could result in significant losses.  

Equity index put option and credit default contracts are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair values are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on our periodic earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the inherent volatility of equity and credit markets. Adverse changes in equity and credit markets may result in material losses in periodic earnings.  

Risks unique to our regulated businesses  

Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.  

When properly paid for the risk assumed, we have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk from a single event than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Accordingly, we could incur a significant loss from a single event. We may also write coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. We attempt to take into account all possible correlations and avoid writing groups of policies from which pre-tax losses might aggregate above $10 billion. Currently, we estimate that our aggregate exposure from a single event under outstanding policies is significantly below $10 billion. However, it is possible that despite our efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. Our tolerance for significant insurance losses may result in lower reported earnings (or net losses) in a future period.  

The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant underwriting losses.  

The principal cost associated with the property and casualty insurance business is claims. In writing property and casualty insurance policies, we receive premiums today and promise to pay covered losses in the future. However, it will take decades before all claims that have occurred as of any given balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although we believe that liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, our objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Our estimated unpaid losses arising under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large ($73.1 billion at December 31, 2015) so even small percentage increases to the aggregate liability estimate can result in materially lower future periodic reported earnings.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Changes in regulations and regulatory actions can adversely affect our operating results and our ability to allocate capital.  

Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage, the level of capital that must be maintained, and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments. Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance companies may adversely impact our results of operations and restrict our ability to allocate capital.  

Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is also subject to a significant number of governmental laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, taxes, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on BNSF’s business. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the business. Federal legislation enacted in 2008 and amended in 2015 mandates the implementation of positive train control technology by December 31, 2018, on certain mainline track where intercity and commuter passenger railroads operate and where toxic-by-inhalation (“TIH”) hazardous materials are transported. Further, federal regulations promulgated in 2015 mandate the implementation of electronically controlled pneumatic braking systems on certain crude oil trains by 2021 and all high-hazard flammable trains, as defined by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and Federal Railroad Administration, by 2023. These types of technology require further testing and deployment across BNSF’s railroad system and other railroads may pose significant operating and implementation risks and requires significant capital expenditures.  

BNSF derives a significant amount of revenue from the transportation of energy-related commodities. Low natural gas prices or oil prices could impact future energy-related commodities demand. To the extent that changes in government environmental policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a source of fuel in generating electricity or alternate fuels, such as natural gas, displace coal on a competitive basis, BNSF’s revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport TIH chemicals and other hazardous materials. An accidental release of hazardous materials could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties and environmental remediation obligations. Increased economic regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF’s ability to determine prices for rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  

Our utilities and energy businesses operated under BHE are highly regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws and regulations are complex, dynamic and subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses, have broad application and limit their management’s ability to independently make and implement decisions regarding numerous matters, including acquiring businesses; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; operating and maintaining generating facilities and transmission and distribution system assets; complying with pipeline safety and integrity and environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; transacting between our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying dividends or similar distributions. Failure to comply with or reinterpretations of existing regulations and new legislation or regulations, such as those relating to air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, cyber security, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters, or changes in the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant adverse impact on our financial results.  

Our railroad business requires significant ongoing capital investment to improve and maintain its railroad network so that transportation services can be safely and reliably provided to customers on a timely basis. Our utilities and energy businesses also require significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain generation, transmission and distribution systems to meet their customers’ needs and reliability criteria. Additionally, system assets may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers. Further, a significant portion of costs of capital improvements are funded through debt issued by BNSF and BHE and their subsidiaries. Disruptions in debt capital markets that restrict access to funding when needed could adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources of these businesses.  

26  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Description of Properties