Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business  

Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.  

The capital and credit markets since 2008 have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength.  

Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate-related loans and resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including financial institutions.  

Although the economic slowdown that the United States experienced has begun to reverse and the markets have generally improved, business activities across a wide range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:  

   •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;  

   •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;  

   •    An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;  

   •    A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to fluctuations in interest rates; and  

   •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provisions for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Overall, during the past four years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business. Although the general business environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. Additionally, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values and rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly than other economic sectors. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include entities active in the real estate and financial services industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Concerns about the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Such risks could indirectly affect the Company by affecting its hedging or other counterparties, as well as the Company’s customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the euro or companies in the Company’s markets with European businesses or affiliates.  

Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition.  

Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated or difficult credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a majority of our liabilities on average during 2011 were checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days’ notice, while by comparison, a substantial majority of our assets were loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, and adverse changes in the economic conditions in this region can adversely affect our performance and credit quality.  

Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, particularly in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. As a result, local economic conditions in the Southeastern United States can significantly affect the demand for the products offered by Regions Bank (including real estate, commercial and construction loans), the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Since 2008, the national real estate market experienced a significant decline in value, and the value of real estate in the Southeastern United States in particular declined significantly more than real estate values in the United States as a whole. This decline has had an adverse impact on some of our borrowers and on the value of the collateral securing many of our loans. This decline may continue to affect borrowers and collateral values, which could adversely affect our currently performing loans, leading to future delinquencies or defaults and increases in our provision for loan losses. Further or continued adverse changes in these economic conditions may negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Hurricanes and other weather-related events, as well as man-made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  

A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes, or in areas of the Southeastern United States that are susceptible to tornadoes and other severe weather events. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption that a catastrophic hurricane could produce to the markets that we serve. Further, a hurricane or severe tornado in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely affect the value of any collateral held by us. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the 2010 Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, severe tornadoes, droughts and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, severe tornadoes, droughts and other weather-related events, as well as man-made disasters, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Continued weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance.  

As of December 31, 2011, consumer residential real estate loans represented approximately 34.5 percent of our total loan portfolio. This portion of our loan portfolio has been under pressure for over four years as recent disruptions in the financial markets and the deterioration in housing markets and general economic conditions have caused a decline in home values, real estate market demand and the credit quality of borrowers. The effects of the continuing mortgage market challenges, combined with decreases in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further declines in home values. Declines in home values would adversely affect the value of collateral securing the residential real estate that we hold, as well as the volume of loan originations and the amount we realize on sale of real estate loans. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Continued weakness in the commercial real estate markets could adversely affect our performance.  

Facing continuing pressure from reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents, the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector also remain weak. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 13.8 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. The properties securing income-producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrower’s ability to repay the loan is instead dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may remain at elevated levels in 2012. High vacancy rates could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration in value of some of our loans. Any such deterioration could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay the amounts due under their loans. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.  

If we experience greater credit losses in our loan portfolios than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.  

As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  

25  

Table of Contents 

We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. Our management periodically determines the allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accrual loans. Increases in this allowance will result in an expense for the period reducing our reported net income. If, as a result of general economic conditions, a decrease in asset quality or growth in the loan portfolio, our management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses which will reduce our net income, and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.  

Although our management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate to absorb probable and reasonable estimable losses in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. In particular, if a hurricane or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our principal markets of if economic conditions in those markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur. Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses will reduce our net income and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, perhaps materially.  

In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to non-accrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Risks associated with home equity products where we are in a second lien position could adversely affect our performance.  

Home equity products, particularly those where we are in a second lien position, and particularly those in certain geographic areas, may carry a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values at the time of origination directly affect the amount of credit extended, and, in addition, past and future changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. Second lien position lending carries higher credit risk because any decrease in real estate pricing may result in the value of the collateral being insufficient to cover the second lien after the first lien position has been satisfied. We have realized higher levels of charge-offs on second lien positions in the state of Florida, where real estate valuations have been depressed over the past several years. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $7.1 billion of our home equity lines and loans were in a second lien position (approximately $2.8 billion in Florida).  

We are unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When our second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, we do not and cannot continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. When the first lien is held by a third party, we can obtain an indication that a first lien is in default through information reported to credit bureaus. However, because borrowers may have more than one mortgage reported on the credit report and there is not a corresponding property address associated with reported mortgages, we are unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. The only communication we receive directly from the first lien holder for our junior lien is notification at the time of foreclosure sale.  

As of December 31, 2011, none of our home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.  

Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, enabling them to be more aggressive than us in competing for loans and deposits. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. We expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, such as the recent repeal of all federal prohibitions on the payment by depository institutions of interest on demand deposit accounts and the recent repeal of all prohibitions on interstate branching by depository institutions. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to effectively market our products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.  

Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our business. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (primarily loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest-earning assets, the average balance of interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System (the “FOMC”) and market interest rates.  

The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven primarily by the FOMC’s actions. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by longer-term interest rates, which are set by the market through benchmark interest rates such as the London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) or, at times the FOMC’s actions, and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace at which such movements occur. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline and, with it, a decline in our earnings may occur. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest-earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In particular, short-term interest rates are currently very low by historical standards, with many benchmark rates, such as the federal funds rate and the one- and three-month LIBOR near zero. These low rates have reduced our cost of funding which has caused our net interest margin to increase.  

Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions’ twelve-month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve-month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve-month net interest income.  

An increasing interest rate environment would also increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers. Such increases may adversely affect those borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated and could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result.  

27  

Table of Contents 

For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the “Net Interest Income and Margin”, “Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” and “Securities” sections of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Our status as a non-investment grade issuer and any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs, place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers, or contribute to ineffective liquidity management.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past three years, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions’ and Regions Bank’s credit ratings and many issued negative outlooks. Negative watch, negative outlook or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. Recently, however, three major rating agencies have revised their outlooks of Regions upward from negative to stable. Citing improvements in loan loss performance and profitability, Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook of Regions to stable in August 2011. Fitch Ratings followed suit in November 2011, noting that Regions’ overall risk profile had improved. In February 2012, Moody’s Investor Services also changed its outlook from negative to stable citing that Regions had decreased its risk concentrations and is showing signs of stability in its asset quality. However, our rating from Dominion Bond Rating Service remains on negative outlook. Currently, Regions’ Senior ratings are Ba3, BB+, BBB-, and BBB by Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service, respectively. Regions’ ratings with Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s and Regions Bank’s ratings with Moody’s Investor Services are currently below investment grade.  

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future.  

Additionally, ratings agencies may also make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices which may affect our credit ratings. In particular, Standard & Poor’s recently issued new credit rating criteria for regional banks based on general economic risks, risks associated with the banking industry, the bank’s strengths and weaknesses, and the likelihood that the bank will need governmental or outside financial support. While Standard & Poor’s has not downgraded Regions’ and Regions Bank’s credit ratings at this time, a few of our peer banks have experienced credit downgrades as a result of the new rating criteria. In the future, these new ratings guidelines may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest.  

Downgrades of Regions’ credit ratings have negative consequences that can impact our ability to access the debt and capital markets, as well as reduce our profitability through increased costs on future debt issuances. Specifically, when Regions was downgraded below investment grade status, we became unable to reliably access the short-term unsecured funding markets, which has caused us to hold more cash and liquid investments to meet our on-going cash needs. Such actions have reduced our profitability as these liquid investments earn a lower return than other assets, such as loans. Regions’ liquidity policy requires that we maintain a minimum cash level sufficient to cover debt service, maturities and operating cash requirements for two years for the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The conservative nature of this policy helps protect us against the costs of unexpected adverse funding environments. Future issuances of debt could cost Regions more in interest costs were such debt to be issued at our current debt rating. Future downgrades would further increase the interest costs associated with potential future borrowings, the cost of which cannot be estimated due to the uncertainty of future issuances in terms of amount and priority.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Additionally, at the time Regions was downgraded to below investment grade, certain counterparty contracts were required to be renegotiated, resulting in additional collateral postings of approximately $200 million. Refer to Note 20, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, Contingent Features” to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fair value of contracts subject to contingent credit features and the collateral postings associated with such contracts. Future downgrades could require Regions to post additional collateral. While the exact amount of additional collateral is unknown, it is reasonable to conclude that Regions may be required to post approximately an additional $200 million related to existing contracts with contingent credit features. Additionally, if due to future downgrades, we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. Regions believes that this market risk exposure would be immaterial to its consolidated financial position, liquidity and results of operations.  

The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.  

As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion of goodwill and $449 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If the fair value of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Additionally, as a result of the potential sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions is evaluating the organization of its reporting units. Reorganization of its reporting units in the future would result in a reallocation of goodwill across Regions’ business, at which time Regions would be required to test its goodwill in these new reporting units for impairment and could result in a write-down of our goodwill. A goodwill impairment charge is a non-cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital.  

The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios.  

As of December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $1.3 billion in net deferred tax assets, of which $432 million was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions’ regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our regulatory capital. The inability to include deferred tax assets in our regulatory capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios.  

Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination, we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax to prior years’ taxable income, reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2011 (except for $32 million related to state deferred tax assets for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any European sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, defaults by, or even mere speculation about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We are unable to make assurances that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities.  

On November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. The federal regulators have not provided any formal guidance on the conditions to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) and appear to address these questions on a case-by-case basis. Our expectation is that we would be required to generate or raise additional capital prior to exiting TARP. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on market conditions at the time.  

There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative inferences regarding our strength as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP. Any such negative perceptions and the limitations on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

The limitations on incentive compensation contained in ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.  

Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Because we remain subject to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have exited the CPP to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  

Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.  

We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.  

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.  

Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding.  

We may experience an outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise. This outflow of deposits could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.  

We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings.  

If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.  

Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers.  

Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Regions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC’s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Regions’ or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Regions’ or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations.  

Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  

Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and  

32  

Table of Contents 

 exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  

Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, or failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.  

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.  

We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property.  

In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.  

Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must  

33  

Table of Contents 

 select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.  

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; fair value measurements; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes.  

Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  

Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Framework in which Our Business Operates  

We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation.  

We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our and their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders.  

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.  

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect  

34  

Table of Contents 

 depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control of bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, maintenance of adequate capital by bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, and general business operations and financial condition of Regions and Regions Bank (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Additionally, all our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, and certain of our other subsidiaries, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators.  

As a result, we are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the “Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements” section and associated Capital Ratios table of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.  

The Dodd-Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including:  

   •    Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements, and numerous other requirements on “systemically significant institutions,” including all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions);  

   •    Establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms;  

   •    Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to “systemically significant institutions” to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates;  

   •    Establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws;  

   •    Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase-out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under TARP, such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and  

   •    Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages.  

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective on July 21, 2011, the one-year anniversary of its enactment. However, a number of these other provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in some respects, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effect on Regions and the U.S. financial system generally may not be known for some time.  

35  

Table of Contents 

The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any future rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition.  

Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.  

Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past four years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009, and required banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC increased the DIF’s target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act’s elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIF’s reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Additionally, in February 2011, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. The FDIC also adopted a revised risk-based assessment calculation in February 2011. In January 2010, the FDIC proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. Comments were due on February 18, 2010, but as of February 2012, no final rule has been adopted. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increases may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense.  

On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products our peer institutions may offer in response to this repeal. We anticipate that our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new clients or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements.  

Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum  

36  

Table of Contents 

 capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated as part of the Basel Committee III process and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the “Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses conducted on Regions may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities.  

As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and Regions will conduct ongoing stress analyses of Regions in connection with evaluating Regions’ capital plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will release publicly a summary containing bank holding company specific information and results of the 2012 stress analyses it conducts in connection with the CCAR.  

Under the Proposed SIFI Rules discussed under “Regulatory Reforms” in the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Federal Reserve will also conduct an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in adverse economic and financial conditions. This stress analysis will use three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to conduct our own semi-annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis would be released publicly and contain bank holding company specific information and results. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to disclose publicly the results of our semi-annual stress analyses.  

Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers’ potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting or requiring revisions to our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders.  

If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non-bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on  

37  

Table of Contents 

 the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations.  

The Dodd-Frank Act gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuer’s fraud prevention policies. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved its final rule on debit interchange fees. The final rule caps the maximum debit interchange fee at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points (multiplied by the amount of the transaction) to reflect a portion of fraud losses. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the final rule are applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank. The debit interchange fee provision took effect on October 1, 2011.  

The Federal Reserve estimates that covered issuers, such as Regions Bank, may experience a decline in debit interchange fee revenue by more than 40 percent under the final rule. In 2011, Regions Bank collected $335 million in debit card income. We estimate that our debit card income will likely be reduced by approximately $180 million annually under the final rule before mitigation efforts.  

In addition to the final rule on debit interchange fees, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that provides an upward adjustment of a maximum of 1 cent to an issuer’s debit card interchange fee if the issuer establishes and implements procedures that meet specified fraud-prevention standards set forth under the interim final rule. In order to receive the adjustment, qualifying issuers must certify their eligibility to the payment card networks in which they participate. The fraud-prevention adjustment provision took effect on October 1, 2011, but may be revised by the Federal Reserve at a later date based on comments received through September 30, 2011. Regions is currently eligible for this adjustment. Since this rule is not yet final, the effects of this provision in its final form on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time.  

The final rule also prohibits issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. This network exclusivity provision is applicable to all issuers, even those exempt from the debit interchange fees. Issuers will be subject to the network exclusivity rule beginning on April 1, 2012.  

The Federal Reserve predicts that this network exclusivity provision may result in higher costs for some issuers and may place downward pressure on interchange fees because merchants may opt to route transactions over less expensive networks. The effects of this rule on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time.  

Risks Related to the Sale of Morgan Keegan  

The sale of Morgan Keegan may have an adverse impact on our business.  

Pursuant to a stock purchase agreement entered into on January 11, 2012 (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”), Regions agreed to sell Morgan Keegan and certain related companies to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for  

38  

Table of Contents 

 approximately $930 million. The transaction is expected to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to customary conditions including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. We expect to receive a pre-closing dividend of $250 million from Morgan Keegan, bringing our total proceeds from the sale to approximately $1.18 billion, subject to adjustment.  

The cash purchase price calculated under the Stock Purchase Agreement is subject to adjustment based on (1) the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan as of the closing of the transaction and (2) retention of Morgan Keegan employees through the date 90 days after closing of the transaction (the “Measurement Date”). If a significant number of Morgan Keegan employees leave prior to the Measurement Date or if the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan declines, the purchase price for Morgan Keegan that we receive under the Stock Purchase Agreement may be decreased.  

Risks Related to Our Common Stock  

The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate.  

The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by:  

   •    Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;  

   •    Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally;  

   •    Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;  

   •    The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;  

   •    Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;  

   •    Expectations of or actual equity dilution;  

   •    Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and  

   •    Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility.  

Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.  

We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.  

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the “Stockholders’ Equity” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  

39  

Table of Contents 

We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  

Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future.  

Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after-tax net income.  

Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions’ capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends.  

Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.  

Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer.  

We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long-term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non-investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited.  

We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non-investment grade issuer,  

40  

Table of Contents 

 or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity ownership.  

We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders.  

Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios.  

Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5 percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three-year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions’ stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing “5 percent shareholders” or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

 Item 2. Properties