Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

We are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. We sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. In addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain third-party sales and intercompany transactions forecasted to occur within the next two years. Contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is a liability of $24.6 million and an asset of $11.2 million at September 30, 2008. We enter into these contracts with global financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy.  

We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. We do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to U.S. dollars. In 2008, the relative weakening of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our revenues and results of operations. While future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens.  

Certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. For such assets and liabilities without offsetting forward foreign exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $10 million.  

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in fair value in earnings immediately. The ineffective portion was not significant in 2008 and 2007.  

At September 30, 2008 and 2007, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts relating to the Swiss franc, euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and   

36  

 Singapore dollar. The use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations.  

The following table indicates the total U.S. dollar equivalents (in millions) of net transactional foreign exchange exposure related to (short) long contracts outstanding by currency:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

All of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. We designated certain of these contracts related to third-party sales or intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through October 2010 as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

Interest Rate Risk  

In addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations.  

Our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. At September 30, 2008, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $100.0 million with remaining maturities of six days at a weighted average interest rate of 2.25 percent; at September 30, 2007, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $173.0 million with remaining maturities of three days at a weighted average interest rate of 5.1 percent. The weighted average interest rate on our commercial paper borrowings was 2.9 percent during 2008 and 5.3 percent during 2007. As these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. Changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. In 2008 and 2007, a 10 percent increase in average interest rates would not have had a significant effect on our results of operations. In 2008, a 100 percent increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $7.9 million. We use a 100 percent hypothetical fluctuation as our actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2008.  

We had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $904.4 million at September 30, 2008 and $753.9 million at September 30, 2007. The fair value of this debt was $883.0 million at September 30, 2008 and $777.3 million at September 30, 2007. The potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. We currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners’ equity.  

37  

  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data