Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 Financial Section Roadmap  

 Management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) can be found on pages 30 to 58, the report related to the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting can be found on page 62 and the financial statements and related notes can be found on pages F-1 to F-57. The following table is designed to assist in your review of MD&A.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Overview and Outlook  

 L-3’s Business  

 L-3 is a prime contractor in Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C3ISR) systems, aircraft modernization and maintenance, and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of electronic systems used on military and commercial platforms. Our customers include the United States    

 30   
 (U.S.) Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DoS), U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), allied foreign governments, domestic and foreign commercial customers, and select other U.S. federal, state and local government agencies.  

 We have the following four reportable segments: (1) C3ISR, (2) Government Services, (3) Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M), and (4) Electronic Systems. Financial information with respect to each of our reportable segments is included in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements. C3ISR provides products and services for the global ISR market, C3 systems, networked communications systems and secure communications products. We believe that these products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major command, control and communication, intelligence gathering and space systems. These products and services are used to connect a variety of airborne, space, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in the transmission, processing, recording, monitoring, and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Government Services provides a full range of engineering, technical, analytical, information technology (IT), advisory, training, logistics and support services to the DoD, DoS, DoJ, and U.S. Government intelligence agencies and allied foreign governments. AM&M provides modernization, upgrades and sustainment, maintenance and logistics support services for military and various government aircraft and other platforms. We sell these services primarily to the DoD, the Canadian Department of Defense and other allied foreign governments. Electronic Systems provides a broad range of products and services, including components, products, subsystems, systems, and related services to military and commercial customers in several niche markets across several business areas, including power & control systems, electro-optic/infrared (EO/IR), microwave, simulation & training, precision engagement, warrior systems, security & detection, propulsion systems, avionics and displays, telemetry & advanced technology, undersea warfare, and marine services.  

 During the quarter ended June 25, 2010, we made certain reclassifications between our Government Services and Electronic Systems reportable segments due to a re-alignment of a business within our management and organizational structure. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the prior period amounts reclassified between reportable segments.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2010, we generated sales of $15,680 million. Our primary customer was the DoD. The table below presents a summary of our 2010 sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total 2010 sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Most of our contracts (revenue arrangements) with the U.S. Government are subject to U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency audits and various cost and pricing regulations, and include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Multiyear U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable. Foreign government contracts generally include comparable provisions relating to termination for the convenience of the relevant foreign government.   

 31   
 Industry Considerations  

 In recent years, a variety of changing conditions have significantly affected the markets for defense systems, products and services. There has been a fundamental shift in focus from a traditional “threat-based” model to one that emphasizes a broad range of capabilities needed to respond to all contingencies and to defeat all adversaries (all hazards, all threats). This expanded scope has transformed the U.S. defense posture to a “capabilities-based” orientation that can be tailored and structured to meet the demands of contemporary and future national and homeland security requirements. This approach involves creating a more flexible response with appropriate capability, agility and force while highlighting changing technologies and operational approaches applied to the challenges we face at every level of warfare and in conditions short of war. The entire set of capabilities resident in the DoD inventory are being examined for change, with special attention given to improved strategic defense systems, interoperable and brilliant networked information and communications systems, precise weapons and survivable delivery platforms, improved and enhanced intelligence, reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition systems, and security systems in general. This transformation also includes the application of military capabilities for homeland defense and selected emergency response efforts.  

 Furthermore, the latest DoD budgets have reflected increased focus on C5ISR (command, control, communications, computers, collaboration and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance), precision-guided weapons, UAVs and other electro-mechanical robotic capabilities, networked information technologies, special operations forces, and missile defense. In addition, the DoD has focused on a transformation strategy that seeks to balance modernization and recapitalization (or upgrading existing platforms and capabilities) while enhancing readiness and joint operations — all while engaging in demanding on-going military operations. As a result, defense budget program allocations continue to favor immediate war-fighting improvements and concurrent measured investment in new platforms. DoD’s emphasis on systems interoperability, force multipliers, advances in intelligence gathering, and the provision of real-time relevant data to battle commanders — often referred to as the common operating picture (COP), have increased the electronic content of nearly all major military procurement and research programs. Therefore, it is expected that the DoD budget for information technologies and defense electronics will grow. We believe L-3 is well positioned to benefit from the expected focus in those areas.  

 While the DoD budget could be affected by several factors, including current and future economic conditions and presidential administration priorities, we are unable to predict the impact and outcome of these uncertainties. However, the current outlook is one of a more focused application of DoD spending, based on emerging priorities, which we believe benefits L-3’s future orders and sales, operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a decline in the DoD budget would generally have a negative effect on future orders, sales, operating profits, and cash flows of defense contractors, including L-3, depending on the platforms and programs affected by such budget reductions.  

 With regard to U.S. homeland defense and security, increased emphasis in these important endeavors may increase the demand for our capabilities in areas such as security systems, information assurance and cyber security, crisis management, preparedness and prevention services, and non-DoD security operations.  

 As of today, the entire federal government is operating under a continuing resolution authority for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011. The continuing resolution funds programs and services, including DoD budgets, at approximately the same levels as fiscal year 2010. The continuing resolution expires on March 4, 2011, after which, Congress will either pass a new appropriations bill, extend the continuing resolution or shut down the government for all nonessential federal government services. An extension of the continuing resolution or a shut down of the government for all nonessential federal government services may adversely affect our sales and operating income and possibly delay new awards.  

 Key Performance Measures  

 The primary financial performance measures that L-3 uses to manage its businesses and monitor results of operations are sales growth and operating income growth. Management believes that these financial performance measures are the primary growth drivers for L-3’s earnings per common share and net cash from operating activities. One of L-3’s primary business objectives is to increase sales from organic growth and select business acquisitions. We define organic sales growth as the increase or decrease in sales for the current period compared to the prior period, excluding sales in the: (1) current period from business and product line acquisitions that are included in L-3’s actual results of operations for less than twelve months, and (2) prior period from business and product line divestitures that are included in L-3’s actual    

 32   
 results of operations for the twelve-month period prior to the divestiture date. We expect to supplement our organic sales growth by selectively acquiring businesses that: (1) add important new technologies, services, and products, (2) provide access to select customers, programs and contracts, and (3) provide attractive returns on investments. The two main determinants of our operating income growth are sales growth and improvements in direct and indirect contract costs. We define operating margin as operating income as a percentage of sales. Improving operating margins is one method for growing earnings per common share and net cash from operating activities, but it is not the only one.  

 Sales Growth. Our average annual sales growth for the five years ended December 31, 2010, was 11%, with average annual organic sales growth of approximately 5% and average annual sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of approximately 6%. Sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 0.4%, comprised of sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of 1.3%, partially offset by an organic sales decline of 0.9%.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2010, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the Army Fleet Support contract with the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command. Under this contract, which generated approximately 3% of our sales, we provide maintenance and logistical support services for rotary aircraft assigned to Fort Rucker and satellite units in Alabama. The current contract, assuming the exercise of two one-year options, expires on September 30, 2013 and we anticipate that the customer will announce an acquisition timeline during the third quarter of 2011 for the contract re-competition.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the Special Operations Forces Support Activity (SOFSA) contract, which generated approximately 3% of our sales. On June 21, 2010, SOFSA announced that the follow-on contract was awarded to another contractor. The transition to the successor contractor began immediately and ended in October 2010.  

 Like most of the U.S. defense industry, we have benefited from the upward trend in DoD budget authorization and spending outlays since 2001, including wartime supplemental funding for U.S. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) in Iraq and Afghanistan. While we believe the U.S. Government will continue to place a high priority on national security, we anticipate that future DoD base budgets will grow at a slower rate compared to the recent past and flatten or modestly decline in select areas, and that future OCO supplemental appropriations are declining. Mounting pressure for deficit reduction and reduced national spending has created an environment where national security spending will also be closely examined and possibly reduced. The fiscal year ending September 30, 2012 DoD base budget request of $553 billion was submitted by the Obama Administration to Congress on February 14, 2011, and is higher than the fiscal year 2011 base budget request of $549 billion by $4 billion or 1%. As noted in Industry Considerations on page 32, the entire federal government is currently operating under a continuing resolution authority for fiscal year 2011, including the DoD. Accordingly, the fiscal year 2011 DoD budget is currently $526 billion, which is the same as the actual DoD budget for fiscal year 2010. The fiscal year 2012 Budget Request includes Secretary Gates’ January 6, 2011 future budget outlook in which he identified $78 billion in DoD reductions for the five year fiscal period 2012 to 2016 compared to the same period in the fiscal year 2011 budget request. The fiscal year 2012 budget request shows average nominal growth in the base budget for fiscal years 2012 to 2016 of 2.2% compared to the fiscal year 2011 request. The base budget request reflects sustained funding for many areas, including communications, ISR, special operations support, modernization and upgrades to existing platforms, such as the Bradley Fighting Vehicles, helicopter crew training and maintenance and simulation and training systems, that are important to L-3. The fiscal year 2012 budget request also includes $118 billion of supplemental appropriations for OCO, which is $41 billion lower from the OCO request for fiscal year 2011 of $159 billion, due primarily to the planned draw down of U.S. military forces from Iraq by December 31, 2011. The actual OCO budget for fiscal year 2010 was $162 billion. The President’s budget request uses an annual OCO placeholder of $50 billion for fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2016.  

 The current and future DoD base budgets and OCO supplemental appropriations are a function of several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, the level of U.S. military forces committed to OCO and geo-political developments. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in or redirection of current and future DoD budgets and impact L-3’s future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates. Additionally, L-3’s future results of operations will be affected by our ability to retain our existing business and to successfully compete for new business, which largely depend on: (1) our successful performance on existing contracts, (2) the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and    

 33   
 research and development activities, (3) our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at a lower cost, and (4) our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those employees who have U.S. Government security clearances.  

 Operating Income Growth. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our consolidated operating income was $1,750 million, an increase of 6% from $1,656 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our consolidated operating margin was 11.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of 60 basis points from 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 We are focused on modestly increasing operating margin, to the extent possible, by reducing our indirect costs and improving our overall contract performance. However, we may not be able to continue to expand our operating margin on an annual basis and our operating margin could decline. Additionally, in the future, select business acquisitions and select new business, including contract renewals and new contracts, could also reduce our operating margin if their margins are lower than L-3’s operating margin on existing business and contracts. In addition, changes in the competitive environment and our consolidated sales levels could also result in lower operating margin.  

 Business Acquisitions and Business and Product Line Dispositions  

 As discussed above, one aspect of our strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that add new products, services and technologies, or provide access to select customers, programs and contracts. We intend to continue acquiring select businesses for reasonable valuations that will provide attractive returns to L-3. Our business acquisitions, depending on their contract-type, sales mix or other factors, could reduce L-3’s consolidated operating margin while still increasing L-3’s operating income, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. In addition, we may also dispose of certain businesses or product lines if we determine that they no longer fit into L-3’s overall business strategy and we are able to receive an attractive sales price.  

 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures  

 Acquisitions. The table below summarizes the acquisitions that we have completed during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, referred to herein as business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we used $756 million of cash for business acquisitions, including earnout payments and remaining contractual purchase prices for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 34   
  (1)   The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for the acquired business, excluding adjustments for net cash acquired and acquisition transaction costs.   

  (2)   We increased our ownership interest in METI from approximately 80% to 85% in 2008. METI was sold on October 8, 2008, as described below.   

  (3)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $1 million, which is contingent upon the financial performance of GAI through July 2011.   

  (4)   Includes additional purchase price of approximately $4 million for certain acquired tax benefits.   

  (5)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $11 million, which is contingent upon the post acquisition financial performance of 3Di through December 31, 2012.   

  (6)   The final purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing date actual net assets.    

 All of our business acquisitions are included in our consolidated results of operations from their dates of acquisition. We regularly evaluate potential business acquisitions but, at this time, have not entered into any other agreements for transactions that would be considered significant business acquisitions.  

 Divestitures. On December 17, 2010, we divested InfraredVision Technology Corporation (ITC), which was within the Electronic Systems reportable segment. The divestiture resulted in an after-tax loss of less than $1 million. The annual revenues of approximately $4 million, operating results and net assets of ITC were not material for any period presented and, therefore, the ITC divestiture is not reported as a discontinued operation.  

 On October 8, 2008, we divested our 85% ownership interest in METI, which was within the Electronic Systems reportable segment. The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of $20 million (pre-tax gain of $33 million), which was excluded from income from continuing operations. The revenues, operating results and net assets of METI for all periods presented were not material and, therefore, are not presented as discontinued operations. On May 9, 2008, we sold the Electron Technologies Passive Microwave Devices (PMD) product line within the Electronic Systems reportable segment and recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $7 million (pre-tax gain of $12 million).  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and cost of sales during the reporting period. The most significant of these estimates and assumptions relate to contract revenue, profit and loss recognition, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, market values for inventories reported at lower of cost or market, pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, stock-based employee compensation expense, valuation of deferred taxes, litigation reserves and environmental obligations, accrued product warranty costs and the recoverability, useful lives and valuation of recorded amounts of long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Actual amounts will differ from these estimates and could differ materially. We believe that our critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make assumptions about matters that are uncertain and inherently judgmental at the time of the estimate; (2) use of reasonably different assumptions could have changed our estimates, particularly with respect to estimates of contract revenues and costs, and recoverability of assets, and (3) changes in the estimate could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Contract Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates. A large portion of our revenue is generated using written contracts (revenue arrangements) that require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These revenue arrangements or contracts are generally fixed price, cost-plus, or time-and-material and are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors. Substantially all of our cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Certain of our contracts with the U.S. Government are multi-year contracts that are funded annually by    

 35   
 the customer, and sales on these multi-year contracts are based on amounts appropriated (funded) by the U.S. Government.  

 Sales and profits on fixed-price type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors are substantially recognized using percentage-of-completion (POC) methods of accounting. Sales and profits on fixed-price production contracts under which units are produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process are recorded as units are delivered based on their contractual selling prices (the “units-of-delivery” method). Sales and profits on each fixed-price production contract under which units are not produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process, or under which a relatively few number of units are produced, are recorded based on the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion of the contract multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative sales recognized in prior periods (the “cost-to-cost” method). Under both POC methods of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each contract over its entire period of performance, which can exceed one year.  

 Accounting for the sales on these fixed-price contracts requires the preparation of estimates of (1) the total contract revenue, (2) the total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) the measurement of progress towards completion. The estimated profit or loss at completion on a contract is equal to the difference between the total estimated contract revenue and the total estimated cost at completion. Under the units-of-delivery method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded as the units are delivered during the period based on their contractual selling prices. Under the cost-to-cost method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded at amounts equal to the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred divided by total estimated costs at completion, multiplied by (i) the total estimated contract revenue, less (ii) the cumulative sales recognized in prior periods. The profit recorded on a contract in any period using either the units-of-delivery method or cost-to-cost method is equal to (i) the current estimated total profit margin multiplied by the cumulative sales recognized, less (ii) the amount of cumulative profit previously recorded for the contract. In the case of a contract for which the total estimated costs exceed the total estimated revenues, a loss arises, and a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period that the loss becomes evident. The unrecoverable costs on a loss contract that are expected to be incurred in future periods are recorded as a component of other current liabilities entitled “Estimated cost in excess of estimated contract value to complete contracts in process in a loss position.”  

 Adjustments to estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change, or if contract modifications occur. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage-of-completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories, and in some cases result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

 Sales and profits on cost-plus type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for government contractors are recognized as allowable costs are incurred on the contract, at an amount equal to the allowable costs plus the estimated profit on those costs. The estimated profit on a cost-plus contract is fixed or variable based on the contractual fee arrangement. Incentive and award fees are our primary variable fee contractual arrangement. Incentive and award fees on cost-plus type contracts are included as an element of total estimated contract revenues and recorded to sales when a basis exists for the reasonable prediction of performance in relation to established contractual targets and we are able to make reasonably dependable estimates for them. Sales and profits on time-and-material type contracts are recognized on the basis of direct labor hours expended multiplied by the contractual fixed rate per hour, plus the actual costs of material and other direct non-labor costs. On a time-and-material type contract, the fixed hourly rates include amounts for the cost of direct labor, indirect contract costs and profit. Cost-plus type or time-and-material type contracts generally contain less estimation risks than fixed-price type contracts.  

 Sales on arrangements for (1) fixed-price type contracts that require us to perform services that are not related to production of tangible assets (Fixed-Price Service Contracts), and (2) certain commercial customers are recognized in    

 36   
 accordance with revenue recognition accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers. Sales for our businesses whose customers are primarily commercial business enterprises are substantially generated from single element revenue arrangements. Sales are recognized when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or services have been performed, the selling price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that do not contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual service period, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned, or obligations fulfilled, in a different manner. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized when the units of work are completed. Sales and profit on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts within the scope of revenue recognition accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers are recognized in the same manner as those within the scope of contract accounting standards, except for incentive and award fees. Cost-based incentive fees are recognized when they are realizable in the amount that would be due under the contractual termination provisions as if the contract was terminated. Performance based incentive fees and award fees are recorded as sales when awarded by the customer.  

 For contracts with multiple deliverables, we apply the separation and allocation guidance under the accounting standard for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, unless all the deliverables are covered by contract accounting standards, in which case we apply the separation and allocation guidance under contract accounting standards. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be separated into more than one unit of accounting. We recognize revenue for each unit of accounting based on the revenue recognition policies discussed above.  

 Sales and profit in connection with contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government that contain collection risk because the contracts are incrementally funded and subject to the availability of funds appropriated, are deferred until the contract modification is obtained, indicating that adequate funds are available to the contract or task order.  

 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets. In accordance with the accounting standards for business combinations, we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (commonly referred to as the purchase price allocation). As part of the purchase price allocations for our business acquisitions, identifiable intangible assets are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. However, we do not recognize any intangible assets apart from goodwill for the assembled workforces of our business acquisitions.  

 Generally, the largest separately identifiable intangible asset from the businesses that we acquire is the value of their assembled workforces, which includes the human capital of the management, administrative, marketing and business development, scientific, engineering and technical employees of the acquired businesses. The success of our businesses, including their ability to retain existing business (revenue arrangements) and to successfully compete for and win new business (revenue arrangements), is primarily dependent on the management, marketing and business development, contracting, engineering and technical skills and knowledge of our employees, rather than on productive capital (plant and equipment, and technology and intellectual property). Additionally, for a significant portion of our businesses, our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with top-secret and above clearances, is critical to our success, and is often a prerequisite for retaining existing revenue arrangements and pursuing new ones. Generally, patents, trademarks and licenses are not material for our acquired businesses. Furthermore, our U.S. Government contracts (revenue arrangements) generally permit other companies to use our patents in most domestic work performed by such other companies for the U.S. Government. Therefore, because intangible assets for assembled workforces are part of goodwill, the substantial majority of the intangible assets for our acquired business acquisitions are recognized as goodwill. Additionally, the value assigned to goodwill for our business acquisitions also includes the value that we expect to realize from cost reduction measures that we implement for our acquired businesses. Goodwill equals the amount of the purchase price of the business acquired in excess of the sum of the fair value of identifiable acquired assets, both tangible and intangible, less the fair value of liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2010, we had goodwill of $8,730 million and identifiable intangible assets of $470 million.  

 The most significant identifiable intangible asset that is separately recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP for our business acquisitions is customer contractual relationships. All of our customer relationships are established through    

 37   
 written customer contracts (revenue arrangements). The fair value for customer contractual relationships is determined, as of the date of acquisition, based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the estimated future after-tax earnings and cash flows (including cash flows from working capital) arising from the follow-on sales on contract (revenue arrangement) renewals expected from customer contractual relationships over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and sales, less a contributory asset charge, all of which is discounted to present value. If actual future after-tax cash flows are significantly lower than our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the identifiable intangible assets to their realizable values. All identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives as the economic benefits are consumed, ranging from four to 30 years.  

 We review goodwill for impairment at least annually as of November 30, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable in accordance with the accounting standards for goodwill. The goodwill for each reporting unit is tested using a two-step process. A reporting unit is an operating segment, as defined by the segment reporting accounting standards, or a component of an operating segment. A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and is reviewed by operating segment management. Two or more components of an operating segment may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes if the components have similar economic characteristics.  

 L-3 had 19 reporting units at December 31, 2010 and 18 reporting units at December 31, 2009. The composition of our reporting units and associated goodwill were substantially the same in 2010 as compared to 2009 except for changes in goodwill caused primarily by business acquisitions and foreign currency translation adjustments, as disclosed in Note 7 to our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere herein.  

 The table below presents the number of reporting units in each of our reportable segments and the associated goodwill, at December 31, 2010 for each of our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The first step in the process of testing goodwill for potential impairment is to compare the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to measure the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value of goodwill of the reporting unit. Our methodology for determining the fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation approach, and is dependent on estimates for future sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income tax payments, working capital changes, and capital expenditures, as well as, expected long-term growth rates for cash flows. All of these factors are affected by economic conditions related to the industries in which we operate (predominantly the U.S. defense industry), as well as, conditions in the U.S. capital markets.  

 The more significant assumptions used in our DCF valuations to determine the fair values of our reporting units in connection with the goodwill valuation assessment at November 30, 2010, were: (1) detailed three-year cash flow projections for each of our reporting units, which are based primarily on our estimates of future sales, operating income, and cash flows, (2) the expected long-term growth rates for each of our reporting units, which approximate the expected long-term growth rate for the U.S. economy and the respective industries in which the reporting units operate, and (3) risk adjusted discount rates, including the estimated risk-free rate of return, that are used to discount future cash flow projections to their present values. Although certain refinements to the process used to forecast cash flows were implemented, there were no significant changes to the underlying methods used in 2010 as compared to the prior year DCF valuations of our reporting units.   

 38   
 The risk adjusted discount rate represents the estimated weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) for each reporting unit at the date of the annual impairment test. Each reporting unit WACC was comprised of (1) an estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to each of L-3’s reporting units, including a risk free rate of return (i.e. prevailing market yield of 4.1% on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond as of November 30, 2010) and an equity risk premium of 5%, and (2) the current after-tax market rate of return on L-3’s debt (which was 3.1% as of November 30, 2010), each weighted by the relative market value percentages of L-3’s equity and debt. The WACC assumptions for each reporting unit are based on a number of market inputs that are outside of our control and are updated annually to reflect changes to such market inputs as of the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, including: (1) changes to the estimated required rate of return on equity based on historical returns on common stock securities of publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to each of L-3’s reporting units and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over a two-year period, (2) changes to the risk free rate of return based on the prevailing market yield on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond on the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, and (3) changes to the market rate of return on L-3’s debt based on the prevailing yields on L-3’s publicly traded debt securities on the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments. The 2010 equity risk premium of 5% used to determine our WACC was unchanged from the prior year. The WACC for 2011 to 2015 remained the same as last year except for Government Services, which increased by 40 basis points. The WACC after 2015 increased 80 basis points for the Government Services reportable segment, 40 basis points for the Electronic Systems reportable segment, and 30 basis points the C3ISR and AM&M reportable segments. These increases were primarily due to higher estimated required rates of return on equity for the comparable companies that we utilize to develop our cost of equity.  

 The table below presents the weighted average risk adjusted discount rate assumptions used in our DCF valuation for each of our reportable segments for our goodwill impairment assessments at November 30, 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As presented in the table below, L-3’s historical three-year average annual cash flow growth rates for 2010, 2009 and 2008 for our reportable segments ranged from a negative 3% to a positive 8%. The annual cash flows generated by each of our reporting units varies from year to year, and, therefore, the annual cash flow growth rates do not result in linear trends, due to a number of factors. The factors that affect the level of annual cash flows in each of our reporting units include, but are not limited to: (1) variability of annual sales volume and sales growth rates, (2) increases and decreases in working capital, including customer advance payments and billings on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) with long-term performance periods (exceeding one year), (3) the timing of invoicing and cash collections between fiscal years from receivables due from customers on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) that are affected by the financing terms of individual contracts, (4) the timing of increases and decreases of select inventories procured and produced in anticipation of future product sales, which frequently overlap the ending and beginning of fiscal years, (5) the timing of the receipt of award fee and incentive fee payments from customers on contracts (revenue arrangements), (6) variability in annual cash outlays for research and development costs, (7) changes in cash outlays for capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, and (8) increases in annual sales and costs and expense volumes of a reporting unit resulting from business acquisitions. As a result of the factors discussed above and the varying sizes of our reporting units, the annual cash flow levels and growth rates at the reporting unit level tend to fluctuate significantly from year to year. The 2010 cash flow    

 39   
 amount and the cash flow growth rate for each of the last three years for each of our reportable segments are presented in the following table.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We consistently consider several factors to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units, including, but not limited to historical multi-year average cash flow trends by reporting unit, as well as: (1) the DoD budget and spending priorities, (2) expansion into new markets, (3) changing conditions in existing markets for our products, systems, and services, (4) possible termination of certain government contracts, (5) expected success in new business competitions and re-competitions on existing business, and (6) anticipated operating margins and working capital requirements, which vary significantly depending on the stage of completion (early, mature, ending) of contracts (revenue arrangements). We closely monitor changes in these factors and their impact on the expected cash flow growth rates of our reporting units. For our goodwill impairment assessments as of November 30, 2010, we assumed that the economic and competitive environments continue to be challenging in Government Services and our commercial businesses and slower growth in DoD budgets compared to prior year. We also made additional assumptions that consider the factors noted above that were relevant and specific to each of our reporting units.  

 The table below presents the estimated (1) 2011 cash flow amount, (2) average cash flow growth rates for 2011 – 2013, and (3) weighted average cash flow growth rates for 2014 and 2015 and after 2015 for each of our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 40   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

 In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations relating to our goodwill impairment assessment, we applied hypothetical decreases to the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units. We determined that a decrease in fair value of at least 20% would be required before any reporting unit, with the exception of six, would have a carrying value in excess of its fair value. The table below presents the: (1) risk adjusted discount rates, (2) annual cash flow and three-year average growth rate, (3) 2010 cash flow, (4) goodwill balance, and (5) excess fair value percentage and dollar amount, for each of these six reporting units. These reporting units are all included in our Electronic Systems reportable segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The goodwill balance is as of November 30, 2010, our goodwill impairment testing date.   

  (2)   The excess fair value represents the percentage and dollar amount by which the fair value of a reporting unit must decline before a potential impairment is identified and would require the second step of the goodwill impairment assessment to be performed.   

  (3)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 90% in 2011 compared to 2010 levels due to liquidations of advance payments on contracts with non-DoD customers and contracts nearing completion. In addition, our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed that projected cash flow will remain approximately 70% below 2010 levels in 2012 and 2013 reflecting continued liquidations of advance payments and working capital requirements, primarily inventory for airborne dipping sonar contracts for allied foreign navies. Projected cash flows are expected to grow annually at 2% after 2013.   

  (4)   The Warrior Systems reporting unit was created in the third quarter of 2010 as a result of our acquisition of Insight on April 14, 2010, and its combination with two existing EO/IR businesses. Cash flow data for 2008 and 2009 include the cash flows from the two former EO/IR businesses and the 2010 cash flow includes these two businesses and Insight from the acquisition date. The DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed an average annual cash flow growth rate of 39% during 2011 through 2013, reflecting full year operations for Insight compared to partial year of operations in 2010, timing of cash receipts and disbursements used for working capital and expected reductions in administrative and overhead costs resulting from the formation of this reporting unit and consolidation of select business processes within the reporting unit. Projected cash flows are expected to grow 1% after 2013.   

  (5)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 40% in 2011 compared to 2010 due to contracts nearing completion and expected delay of repairs and service life extensions of U.S. Navy surface vessels because of current military and humanitarian deployments. In addition, our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed that the projected cash flow will remain substantially the same through 2013 reflecting an expected 3% three-year average growth in sales for service life extension on landing craft air cushion amphibious vehicles, and of U.S. Navy surface vessels as deployments are completed, and higher operating income due to improved contract performance. Projected cash flows are expected to grow annually at 4% for 2014 and 1% thereafter.   

  (6)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 50% in 2011 compared to 2010 due to expected liquidations of advance payments on contracts with non-DoD customers. In addition, our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed that the projected cash flow level will remain approximately 20% below 2010 levels through 2013 reflecting continued liquidations of advanced payments partially offset by slightly higher operating margin due to an expected 4% three year average growth in sales primarily for space-based and high-altitude electromagnetic pulse products. Projected cash flows are expected to grow annually at 1% after 2013.     

 41   
  (7)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 60% in 2011 compared to 2010 levels due to lower sales and operating income because of expected reductions in DoD funding for Bradley Fighting Vehicles and delays in foreign military procurement of engines for combat vehicles. In addition, our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed that the DoD will continue to fund the Bradley Fighting Vehicle at 2010 levels thereby keeping sales, operating income and cash flow substantially the same through 2013. Projected cash flows are expected to grow annually at 2% after 2013.   

  (8)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 50% in 2011 compared to 2010 due to expected liquidations of advance payments on an electric drive contract for a Korean shipyard and lower sales and operating income due to continued reduced demand for commercial shipbuilding products. In addition, our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed that projected cash flow will be approximately 15% below 2010 in 2012 and 2013 reflecting an expected three year average sales growth of 2% in sales for commercial shipbuilding from the 2010 depressed levels. Projected cash flows are expected to grow annually at 3% for 2014 and 2015 and 1% thereafter.    

 As noted above, the expected future cash flow growth rates for each of our reporting units are primarily based on our estimates of future sales, operating income, and working capital changes. The substantial majority of our reporting units are primarily dependent upon the DoD budget and spending. Historically, approximately 75% of L-3’s annual sales have been generated from DoD customers. Although the DoD budget could be negatively affected by several factors, including but not limited to U.S. Government budget deficits and the national debt, as of today, the DoD budget has not been meaningfully impacted by the current economic and political environment. Moreover, consistent with our discussion of industry considerations under “Key Performance Measures” beginning on page 32, we anticipate defense budget and spending priorities will continue to focus on many areas that match several of L-3’s core competencies. However, our current estimates and assumptions may not result in the projected cash flow outcomes due to a number of factors, including an economic environment that is more challenging than we anticipate, U.S. Government efforts to reduce budget deficits and the national debt, and DoD priority shifts that do not match L-3’s core competencies. Conversely, our actual cash flows may be higher than our projections and the DCF valuation does not reflect actions that we may take to increase the profitability and cash flows of our reporting units, including the six in the table above, such as reducing administrative and other overhead costs, creating future synergies with other L-3 businesses, or pursuing incremental targeted growth opportunities. Additionally, the DCF valuations do not assume future business acquisitions or divestitures.  

 Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations. The obligations for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans and the related annual costs of employee benefits are calculated based on several long-term assumptions, including discount rates and expected mortality for employee benefit liabilities, and rates of return on plan assets, and expected annual rates for salary increases for employee participants in the case of pension plans, and expected annual increases in the costs of medical and other health care benefits in the case of postretirement benefit obligations. These long-term assumptions are subject to revision based on changes in interest rates, financial market conditions, expected versus actual returns on plan assets, expected participant mortality and other actuarial assumptions, including future rates of salary increases, benefit formulas and levels, and rates of increase in the costs of benefits. Changes in the assumptions, if significant, could materially affect the amount of annual net periodic benefit costs recognized in our results of operations from one year to the next, the liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, and our annual cash requirements to fund these plans. Our pension expense for 2011 is expected to increase by $3 million to $157 million from $154 million in 2010. Our discount rate assumption decreased from a weighted average rate of 6.26% in 2009 to 5.57% in 2010. The increase in our 2011 pension expense resulting from the decrease in discount rate and change in mortality assumptions is mostly offset by higher expected asset returns in 2011 due to higher pension plan asset balances as of the beginning of 2011 compared to 2010. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 53 for a further discussion of our estimated 2011 pension expense.  

 Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense in any given period. The discount rate assumptions used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were based on a hypothetical AA yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield curve is required to have a rating of AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and/or Standard & Poor’s. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curve. For a sensitivity analysis projecting the impact of a change in the discount rate on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 53.  

 Valuation of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. At December 31, 2010, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $194 million, net of deferred tax assets of $14 million for loss carryforwards and $8 million for tax credit carryforwards    

 42   
 which are subject to various limitations and will expire if unused within their respective carryforward periods. Deferred income taxes are determined separately for each of our tax-paying entities in each tax jurisdiction. The future realization of our deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Based on our estimates of the amounts and timing of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we believe that L-3 will be able to realize its deferred tax assets, except for certain foreign and state net operating losses. A change in the ability of our operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and, if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.  

 Liabilities for Pending and Threatened Litigation. We are subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business or assumed in connection with certain business acquisitions. In accordance with the accounting standards for contingencies, we accrue a charge for a loss contingency when we believe it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the loss is within a range of specified amounts, the most likely amount is accrued, and if no amount within the range represents a better estimate we accrue the minimum amount in the range. Generally, we record the loss contingency at the amount we expect to pay to resolve the contingency and the amount is generally not discounted to the present value. Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts are recorded as assets when recovery is deemed probable. Contingencies that might result in a gain are not recognized until realizable. Changes to the amount of the estimated loss, or resolution of one or more contingencies could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our litigation matters.  

 Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. In addition to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with our business acquisitions, our long-lived assets also include property, plant and equipment, capitalized software development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, and certain long-term investments. As of December 31, 2010, the consolidated carrying values of our property, plant and equipment were $923 million, certain long-term investments were $55 million, and capitalized software development costs were $43 million. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment represented 6% of total assets and the carrying value of our capitalized software development costs and certain long-term investments each represented less than 1% of total assets. We review the valuation of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value or net realizable value expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. We use a variety of factors to assess valuation, depending upon the asset. Long-lived assets are evaluated based upon the expected period the asset will be utilized, and other factors depending on the asset, including estimated future sales, profits and related cash flows, estimated product acceptance and product life cycles, changes in technology and customer demand, and the performance of invested companies and joint ventures, as well as volatility in external markets for investments. Changes in estimates and judgments on any of these factors could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.   

 43   
 Results of Operations  

 The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations for the periods presented are affected, significantly in some periods, by our business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our business acquisitions.  

 Consolidated Results of Operations  

 The table below provides selected financial data for L-3 for the years ended December 31, 2010 compared with 2009 and 2009 compared with 2008.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The year ended December 31, 2008 includes: (1) a gain of $12 million ($7 million after income taxes, or $0.06 per diluted share) related to the sale of a product line (the “Product Line Divestiture Gain”), and (2) a non-cash impairment charge of $28 million ($17 million after income taxes, or $0.14 per diluted share) related to a write down of capitalized software development costs for a general aviation product (the “Impairment Charge”), both recorded in the second quarter of 2008. Together with the Litigation Gain described in Note (2) below, these items are referred to as the Q2 2008 Items.   

  (2)   On June 27, 2008, a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals vacated an adverse 2006 jury verdict. In the second quarter of 2008, we recorded a gain of $133 million ($81 million after income taxes, or $0.66 per diluted share), comprised of the reversal of a $126 million current liability for pending and threatened litigation and the reversal of $7 million of related accrued interest (the “Litigation Gain”).     

 2010 Compared with 2009  

 Net Sales: For the year ended December 31, 2010, consolidated net sales of approximately $15.7 billion increased slightly compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Sales growth from the C3ISR segment was offset by lower sales from the Government Services and Electronic Systems reportable segments and the AM&M reportable segment, primarily due to the loss of the SOFSA contract. Acquired businesses, primarily Insight Technology (Insight) and 3Di Technologies (3Di), contributed $207 million to net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

 Sales from services, which include services performed by businesses primarily in our Government Services, AM&M and C3ISR reportable segments, as well as marine services, simulation & training and maintenance for security and detection systems within our Electronic Systems reportable segment, decreased by $15 million to $8,084 million, compared to $8,099 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Sales from services represented approximately 52% of consolidated net sales for each of the years. The decrease was due primarily to reduced subcontractor pass-through sales for U.S. Army systems and software engineering and sustainment (SSES) services, the loss of the SOFSA contract and the loss of an aircraft    

 44   
 maintenance contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, and lower sales volume for marine services and simulation & training due to contracts nearing completion. These decreases were partially offset by organic sales growth in airborne ISR logistics support and fleet management services for the U.S. Air Force and information technology (IT) support services for the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM) and other U.S. Government agencies.  

 Sales from products, primarily from our C3ISR and Electronic Systems reportable segments increased by $80 million to $7,596 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $7,516 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Sales from products represented approximately 48% of consolidated net sales for each of the years. The increase was primarily due to organic growth from networked communications, aircraft modernization, EO/IR, microwave, and security & detection systems and sales from the Insight acquired business. These increases were partially offset by sales declines for combat propulsion systems, commercial shipbuilding products, precision engagement, displays, and marine services. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our segment sales.  

 Operating income and operating margin: Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by $94 million, or 6%, to $1,750 million from $1,656 million from the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating margin increased to 11.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Higher sales and improved contract performance for the C3ISR segment and favorable sales mix across several businesses, improved contract performance, and $9 million from the sale of a technology license in the Electronic Systems segment increased operating margin by 80 basis points. Lower pension expense of $16 million ($10 million after income taxes, or $0.09 per diluted share) increased operating margin by 10 basis points. These increases were partially offset by lower operating margins in the Government Services segment, which reduced operating margin by 20 basis points. Severance charges, primarily in the Electronic Systems segment, of $17 million reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of segment operating margin.  

 Net interest expense and other income: Net interest expense and other income decreased by $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to last year. Lower interest expense primarily as a result of lower outstanding debt and higher income from investments accounted for using the equity method were partially offset by higher debt retirement charges. During 2010, we redeemed our 61/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 and 2014 and recorded related debt retirement charges of $18 million. During 2009, we redeemed our 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 and recorded a related $10 million debt retirement charge.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 60 basis points to 34.9% compared to last year. The increase was primarily due to higher tax benefits for the resolution of tax contingencies in 2009. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2010 included a tax provision of $5 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, related to the U.S. Federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which changed the tax treatment for certain retiree prescription drug benefits and increased the tax rate by 30 basis points.  

 Diluted earnings per share and net income attributable to L-3: Diluted earnings per share (EPS) increased by $0.64, or 8%, to $8.25 for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $7.61 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net income attributable to L-3 increased by $54 million, or 6%, to $955 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $901 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 2.3 million shares, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was due to repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Net sales: For the year ended December 31, 2009, consolidated net sales increased by 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, driven primarily by strong growth in the C3ISR reportable segment and modest growth in the AM&M and Electronic Systems reportable segments. These sales increases were partially offset by a decrease in the Government    

 45   
 Services reportable segment caused primarily by lower linguist sales. The increase in consolidated net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $187 million, or 1%.  

 Sales from services increased by $328 million to $8,099 million, representing approximately 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $7,771 million, or 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in service sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in ISR systems, systems field support services, information technology (IT) support services and marine systems. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in Iraq-related linguist services, lower volume for contract field services (CFS) and reduced subcontractor pass-through sales for SSES services.  

 Sales from products, primarily for our Electronic Systems and C3ISR reportable segments, increased by $386 million to $7,516 million, representing approximately 48% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $7,130 million, or approximately 48% of consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in product sales was primarily due to growth in C3ISR products and several areas in the Electronic Systems reportable segment primarily for EO/IR and microwave products. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our segment sales.  

 Operating income and operating margin: Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009, decreased by $29 million, or 2%, to $1,656 million from $1,685 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $79 million ($48 million after income taxes, or $0.41 per diluted share) because of higher pension expense. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2008 included a net gain of $110 million as a result of the Q2 2008 Items.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, operating margin decreased by 70 basis points to 10.6% compared to 11.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Q2 2008 Items increased consolidated operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 by 70 basis points. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, consolidated operating margin would have been 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 50 basis points due to higher margins, primarily for the C3ISR reportable segment and certain businesses within the Electronic Systems reportable segment. This increase was offset by higher pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, which reduced operating margin by 50 basis points. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of segment operating margin.  

 Net interest expense and other income: Net interest expense and other income for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $8 million, or 3%, primarily due to a $10 million debt retirement charge related to the redemption of our $750 million 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 on November 2, 2009, and the $7 million of accrued interest that was reversed during 2008 in connection with the Litigation Gain. These increases were partially offset by lower interest expense and income from equity method investments.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 40 basis points to 34.3% compared to last year. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 34.3%.  

 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and income from continuing operations: For the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS from continuing operations increased by $0.18, or 2%, to $7.61 from $7.43 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 decreased by $17 million to $901 million from $918 million. The Q2 2008 Items increased diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.58 for the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, diluted EPS from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have increased by $0.76, or 11%, to $7.61 from $6.85 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 would have increased by $54 million, or 6%, to $901 million from $847 million.  

 Diluted earnings per share and net income attributable to L-3: For the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS increased by $0.02 to $7.61 from $7.59 and net income attributable to L-3 decreased by $37 million to $901 million from $938 million. The year ended December 31, 2008 included a gain on the sale of METI of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share).   

 46   
 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 5.0 million shares, or 4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was due to repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

 Reportable Segment Results of Operations  

 The table below presents selected data by reportable segment reconciled to consolidated totals. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional reportable segment data.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 47   
 C3ISR  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2010 Compared with 2009  

 C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 10% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to demand for airborne ISR logistics support and fleet management services and networked communications systems for manned and unmanned platforms.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 15% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating margin increased by 50 basis points. Higher sales volume and improved contract performance increased operating margin by 50 basis points and lower pension expense of $6 million increased operating margin by 20 basis points. These increases were partially offset by higher lower margin services sales, which reduced operating margin by 20 basis points.  

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 22% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily due to increased demand and new business from the DoD for airborne ISR and networked communication systems for manned and unmanned platforms.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 41% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin increased by 150 basis points. Higher sales volume, improved contract performance and a more favorable sales mix for airborne ISR and networked communication systems increased operating margin by 250 basis points. These increases were partially offset by an increase in pension expense of $32 million, which reduced operating margin by 100 basis points.  

 Government Services  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2010 Compared with 2009  

 Government Services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to: (1) reduced subcontractor pass-through sales volume of $154 million related to SSES services that migrated to a contract where L-3 is not a prime contractor, (2) $46 million of lower sales volume from the loss of an Afghanistan Ministry of Defense support contract, and (3) $27 million of lower sales volume from reduced tasking for Iraq training work. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $83 million primarily for increased logistics and law enforcement support services for the U.S. Army due to higher volume for Afghanistan, and information technology support services for SOCOM and other U.S. Government agencies. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $13 million.  

 Government Services operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 13% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating margin decreased by 90 basis points. Operating margin was reduced by 120 basis points primarily due to lower sales volume and lower margins on select contract renewals and new contracts. These    

 48   
 decreases were partially offset by a decline in lower margin subcontractor pass-through sales, which increased operating margin by 30 basis points.  

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Government Services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Sales declined due to: (1) lower sales of Iraq-related linguist services of $226 million, (2) reduced subcontractor pass-through sales volume of $56 million related to task order renewals for U.S. Army systems and software engineering and sustainment (SSES) services which migrated to a contract where L-3 is not a prime contractor, (3) $37 million of lower sales volume due to the timing of deliveries for engineering support services to the DoD, and (4) $15 million of lower volume for intelligence support services for the U.S. Army and U.S. Government agencies. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $48 million primarily for IT support services for USSOCOM and the executive branch of the U.S. Government due to higher volume on new and existing contracts. Additionally, the increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $110 million, or 3%.  

 Government Services operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin decreased by 30 basis points. Lower margins on select contract renewals during 2009 and higher profit margins on certain fixed price contracts during 2008 reduced operating margin by 40 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Acquired businesses also reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by a decline in sales of lower margin linguist services, which increased operating margin by 20 basis points.  

 Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2010 Compared with 2009  

 AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 2% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to sales volume declines of $123 million from SOFSA and $45 million from the loss of an aircraft maintenance contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol in 2009. These decreases were partially offset by $122 million in sales increases primarily for higher volume for Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA), rotary wing cabin assemblies, and the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Program.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 6% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating margin decreased by 40 basis points. The decrease in operating margin was primarily due to lower volume and prices for systems field support services and lower margin sales mix, primarily related to higher JCA volume, which has lower margins than the overall AM&M segment.  

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 6% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in sales was due to: (1) $217 million of higher sales volume primarily due to higher demand from existing contracts for systems field support services for U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force rotary and fixed wing training aircraft and U.S. Special Operations Forces logistics support and higher sales for new contracts, and (2) $61 million of higher sales for JCA. These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines of $124 million for contract field services (CFS) as fewer task orders were received because of more competitors on the current contract that began on October 1, 2008.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 remained substantially the same compared to the year    

 49   
 ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin decreased by 50 basis points. Sales volume declines for CFS reduced operating margin by 40 basis points. Operating margins decreased by 30 basis points primarily due to cost increases on international aircraft modernization contracts. Higher pension expense reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by $10 million of charges to adjust litigation accruals during 2008 that did not recur in 2009, which increased operating margin by 30 basis points.  

 Electronic Systems  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2010 Compared with 2009  

 Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by 1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, reflecting lower sales volume of: (1) $113 million for combat propulsion systems due to a reduction in DoD funding for Bradley Fighting Vehicles, (2) $107 million due to reduced demand for commercial ship building products, and (3) $168 million from precision engagement, marine services, training & simulation, and displays due to contracts nearing completion. These decreases were partially offset by $122 million of sales volume increases due to higher demand primarily for EO/IR products to the U.S. Army, microwave products and security & detection systems, and $9 million from the sale of a technology license. Acquired businesses, primarily Insight and 3Di, contributed $194 million to net sales.  

 Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 16% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating margin increased by 200 basis points. Favorable sales mix across several businesses, primarily EO/IR products, increased operating margin by 160 basis points. Additionally, three items comprised of: (1) the sale of a technology license for $9 million, (2) a volume price adjustment on a supply contract of $6 million, and (3) a favorable contract modification for precision engagement of $5 million, collectively increased operating income by $20 million and operating margin by 40 basis points compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Lower pension expense of $10 million increased operating margin by 20 basis points. These increases were partially offset by severance charges of $11 million, which reduced operating margin by 20 basis points.  

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, reflecting higher sales volume of: (1) $91 million for EO/IR products, primarily due to demand and deliveries on new and existing contracts, (2) $57 million for microwave products primarily due to deliveries of mobile and ground-based satellite communications systems and spare parts for the U.S. military, communication services primarily to the DoD, and higher sales volume for tactical signal intelligence systems, and (3) $47 million primarily for deliveries of tactical quiet generators for mobile electric power for the U.S. Armed Services, and new and follow-on contracts for shipboard electronics and power distribution, conditioning and conversion products primarily to the U.S. Navy. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $78 million, or 1%, and pertains mostly to the Electro-Optical Systems (EOS) business acquired on April 21, 2008, and to Chesapeake Sciences Corporation acquired on January 30, 2009. These sales increases were partially offset by decreases of: (1) $59 million for aviation products as a result of reduced demand from commercial customers caused by the global economic recession, and (2) $36 million for security & detection and undersea warfare due to delays in receipt of expected orders and timing of deliveries.  

 Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin of 12.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 10 basis points compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the Product Line Divestiture Gain ($12 million) and Impairment Charge ($28 million), operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 20 basis points compared to operating margin of 12.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008. An increase in pension expense of    

 50   
 $42 million reduced operating margin by 80 basis points. Operating margin increased by 40 basis points primarily due to higher sales volume and favorable sales mix for EO/IR products and power & control systems. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points due to $6 million of charges to adjust litigation accruals in 2008 that did not recur in 2009 and acquired businesses increased operating margin by 10 basis points.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Anticipated Sources and Uses of Cash Flow  

 At December 31, 2010, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $607 million. While no amounts of the cash and cash equivalents are considered restricted, $425 million are held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. The repatriation of cash held in non-U.S. jurisdictions is subject to local capital requirements, as well as income tax considerations. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. We generated $1,461 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2010. Significant cash uses during the year ended December 31, 2010, included $834 million to repurchase shares of our common stock, $756 million paid for business acquisitions, and $184 million for dividends.  

 As of December 31, 2010, we also had $983 million of borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility, after reductions of $17 million for outstanding letters of credit, subject to certain conditions. Our Revolving Credit Facility expires on October 23, 2012. We currently believe that our cash from operating activities together with our cash on hand and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, defined benefit plan contributions, commitments, contingencies, research and development expenditures, business acquisitions (depending on the size), contingent purchase price payments on previous business acquisitions, program and other discretionary investments, interest payments, income tax payments, L-3 Holdings’ dividends and share repurchases.  

 Our business may not continue to generate cash flow at current levels, and it is possible that currently anticipated improvements may not be achieved. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce dividend payments, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments or to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the U.S. defense industry and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.  

 On February 2, 2011, we repurchased approximately $11 million of our CODES as a result of the exercise by the holders of their contractual right to require us to repurchase their CODES. On February 7, 2011, we issued $650 million in principal amount of 4.95% Senior Notes maturing February 15, 2021. We will use the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to redeem our $650 million 57/8% Senior Subordinated Notes maturing January 15, 2015 (2015 Notes). The redemption price is 101.958% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, March 9, 2011, the redemption date. Subsequent to the redemption of our 2015 Notes, the first scheduled maturity of our existing debt will be our $1 billion 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes maturing on October 15, 2015.  

 For a discussion of our debt refinancing activities during 2010, which improved our debt maturity profile and reduced ongoing interest expense, see “Financing Activities-Debt” on page 55.  

 Balance Sheet  

 Billed receivables increased by $150 million to $1,299 million at December 31, 2010 from $1,149 million at December 31, 2009 due to: (1) higher sales for networked communications, (2) the timing of billings and collections primarily for government services and undersea warfare, and (3) $47 million of acquired billed receivables from business acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by decreases for AM&M, displays, simulation & training, and combat propulsion systems due to lower sales and $3 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.  

 Contracts in process increased by $153 million to $2,548 million at December 31, 2010, from $2,395 million at    

 51   
 December 31, 2009. The increase included $13 million for acquired contracts-in-process, $4 million primarily for balance sheet reclassifications, and $136 million from:  

    •   Increases of $76 million in unbilled contract receivables primarily due to sales exceeding billings for networked communications, aircraft modernization, secure communications, and ISR services, partially offset by decreases due to lower sales and billings for government services, SOFSA, precision engagement, and commercial shipbuilding; and   

    •   Increases of $60 million in inventoried contract costs across several business areas, primarily precision engagement, networked communications and EO/IR products to support current and anticipated customer demand.    

 L-3’s receivables days sales outstanding (DSO) was 70 at December 31, 2010, compared with 66 at December 31, 2009. The increase in DSO was primarily due to the growth in billed receivables for government services and unbilled receivables for networked communications. We calculate our DSO by dividing: (1) our aggregate end of period billed receivables and net unbilled contract receivables, by (2) our trailing 12 month sales adjusted, on a pro forma basis, to include sales from business acquisitions and exclude sales from business divestitures that we completed as of the end of the period, multiplied by the number of calendar days in the trailing 12 month period (365 days at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009). Our trailing 12 month pro forma sales were $15,850 million at December 31, 2010 and $15,621 million at December 31, 2009.  

 The increase in inventories was primarily due to $50 million of acquired inventories from business acquisitions and higher inventory for security and detection systems to support demand. These increases were partially offset by lower commercial shipbuilding inventory.  

 The decrease in current deferred income tax assets was due to Internal Revenue Service tax accounting method changes we elected regarding compensation expense and income recognition of service contracts during 2010.  

 The increase in other current assets is primarily due to higher expected tax refunds, primarily for U.S. federal and state income taxes.  

 The increase in net property, plant and equipment (PP&E) was principally due to capital expenditures and $66 million of acquired PP&E from completed business acquisitions, partially offset by depreciation expense.  

 Goodwill increased by $540 million to $8,730 million at December 31, 2010 from $8,190 million at December 31, 2009.  

 The table below presents the changes in goodwill applicable to our reporting units in each reportable segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The changes in goodwill from foreign currency translation adjustments are due to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currency exchange rates during the year ended December 31, 2010. The decreases in goodwill presented in the C3ISR and Government Services reportable segments were due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound. The increases in goodwill presented in the AM&M and Electronic Systems reportable segments were primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar.   

  (2)   As a result of a re-alignment of a business unit in our management and organizational structure as discussed in Note 2 of our audited consolidated financial statements, goodwill was reclassified on a relative fair value basis from the Government Services reportable segment to the Electronic Systems reportable segment.     

 52   
 The increase in identifiable intangible assets was primarily due to the recognition of $153 million of intangible assets for the business acquisitions during 2010, partially offset by amortization expense.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increase in accrued expenses was primarily due to the timing of invoices received for purchases from third party vendors and subcontractors. The increase in accrued employment costs was due to accrued severance payments, higher benefit costs, and the timing of payments for payroll taxes and salaries and wages. The increase in advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred was primarily due to performance based billings for certain undersea warfare, training & simulation, security & detection systems, and microwave contracts.  

 Non-current deferred income tax liabilities increased primarily due to amortization of certain goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and income recognition of service contracts during 2010 for tax purposes.  

 Pension Plans  

 L-3 maintains defined benefit pension plans covering employees at certain of its businesses and approximately 23% of its employees. At December 31, 2010, L-3’s projected benefit obligation, which includes accumulated benefits plus the incremental benefits attributable to projected future salary increases for covered employees, was $2,365 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,585 million by $780 million. At December 31, 2009, L-3’s projected benefit obligation was $1,964 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,304 million by $660 million. The $120 million increase in our unfunded status was due to pension expense of $154 million for 2010, and an increase of $158 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss comprised of $201 million primarily for net actuarial losses experienced in 2010 and $43 million of amortization of net actuarial losses and prior service costs as a component of pension expense in 2010, partially offset by employer pension contributions of $186 million and a decrease of $6 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.  

 The 2010 increase of $201 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss as noted above was primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate from 6.26% at December 31, 2009 to 5.57% at December 31, 2010 and change in expected mortality assumptions. The actuarial gains and losses that our pension plans experience are not recognized in pension expense in the year incurred, but rather are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and amortized to pension expense in future periods over the estimated average remaining service periods of the covered employees. See Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Our pension expense for 2010 was $154 million. We currently expect pension expense for 2011 to increase $3 million to approximately $157 million primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate and the change in expected mortality assumptions as noted above, partially offset by higher expected asset returns in 2011.  

 Our pension expense for 2011 may be different from our current expectations when finalized due to a number of factors, including the effect of any future business acquisitions for which we assume liabilities for pension benefits, changes in headcount at our businesses that sponsor pension plans, actual pension plan contributions and changes (if any) to our pension assumptions for 2011, including the discount rate, expected long-term return on plan assets and salary increases.  

 Our contributions for 2010 were $186 million and we currently expect to contribute approximately $185 million to our pension plans in 2011. Actual 2011 pension contributions could be affected by changes in the funded status of our pension plans during 2011. A substantial portion of our pension plan contributions for L-3’s businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are recoverable as allowable indirect contract costs at amounts generally equal to the annual pension contributions.  

 Our projected benefit obligation and annual pension expense are significantly affected by our discount rate assumption. For example, a reduction to the discount rate of 25 basis points would increase our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2010 by approximately $79 million and our estimated pension expense for 2011 by approximately $11 million. Conversely, an increase to the discount rate of 25 basis points would have decreased our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2010 by approximately $75 million, and our estimated pension expense for 2011 by approximately $10 million.   

 53   
 Statement of Cash Flows  

 The table below provides a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods indicated.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Operating Activities  

 2010 Compared with 2009. We generated $1,461 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $54 million compared with $1,407 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was due to $55 million of higher net income and $51 million of higher non-cash expenses primarily for higher deferred income taxes and stock-based employee compensation. These increases were partially offset by $52 million of more net cash used for changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily for billed receivables and pension and postretirement benefits. The net cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities is further discussed above under “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Balance Sheet” beginning on page 51.  

 2009 Compared with 2008. We generated $1,407 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $20 million compared with $1,387 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was due to less net cash used of $61 million for changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily for billed receivables, contracts in process, other current liabilities (mainly the Litigation Gain) and pension and postretirement benefits, partially offset by more cash used for changes in accounts payable, accrued employment costs, accrued expenses, and advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred. This increase was partially offset by: (1) a decrease in net income of $38 million, and (2) lower non-cash expenses of $3 million, primarily due to lower deferred income taxes.  

 Interest Payments. Our cash from operating activities included interest payments on debt of $233 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $267 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our interest expense also included amortization of deferred debt issue costs and bond discounts, which are non-cash items.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2010, we used $945 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire four businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions” on page 34, (2) pay $181 million for capital expenditures, and (3) invest $23 million in an unconsolidated subsidiary accounted for using the equity method.  

 During 2009, we used $272 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire a business and pay the remaining contractual purchase price for a business acquisition completed prior to January 1, 2009 for a total of $90 million, and (2) pay $186 million for capital expenditures.  

 During 2008, we used $283 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire four businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions”, (2) pay earnouts and the remaining contractual purchase price for certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008, and (3) increase our ownership interest in METI by 5% from 80% to 85%. We also used $218 million of cash for capital expenditures. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $63 million source of cash in the aggregate from the sale of METI on October 8, 2008 and the sale of the PMD product line during the second quarter.   

 54   
 Financing Activities  

 Debt  

 At December 31, 2010, total outstanding debt was $4,137 million, of which $1,794 million was senior debt and $2,343 million was subordinated debt and CODES, compared to $4,112 million at December 31, 2009, of which $996 million was senior debt and $3,116 million was subordinated debt and CODES. At December 31, 2010, borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility were $983 million, after reduction for outstanding letters of credit of $17 million. We also have $377 million of other standby letters of credit at December 31, 2010, that may be drawn upon in the event we do not perform on certain of our contractual requirements. There were no borrowings outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, our outstanding debt matures between January 15, 2015 and August 1, 2035. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the components of our debt at December 31, 2010.  

 Debt Issuances and Repayments. On May 21, 2010, L-3 Communications issued $800 million in principal amount of 4.75% Senior Notes maturing July 15, 2020 (2020 Senior Notes) at a discount of $3 million. The effective interest rate of the 2020 Senior Notes is 4.79%. Interest on the 2020 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. The net cash proceeds from this offering amounted to approximately $790 million after deducting the discounts, commissions and estimated expenses, and were used, together with cash on hand, to redeem L-3 Communications’ 61/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 and 2014. In connection with the redemption of the 61/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 and 2014, we recorded debt retirement charges of approximately $18 million ($11 million after income tax, or $0.10 per diluted share) during year ended December 31, 2010.  

 On October 2, 2009, L-3 Communications issued $1 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.20% Senior Notes maturing October 15, 2019 (2019 Senior Notes) at a discount of $4 million. The 2019 Senior Notes have an effective interest rate of 5.25%. Interest on the 2019 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year. The net cash proceeds from this offering amounted to approximately $987 million after deducting the discounts, commissions and estimated expenses, and were used, together with cash on hand, to redeem L-3 Communications’ outstanding $750 million 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due in 2012 (2012 Notes) on November 2, 2009 and to repay L-3 Communications’ outstanding $650 million term loan on October 7, 2009. In connection with the redemption of the 2012 Notes, we recorded a debt retirement charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 of approximately $10 million ($6 million after income tax, or $0.05 per diluted share).  

 On October 23, 2009, L-3 Communications replaced its $1 billion revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire on March 9, 2010, with a $1 billion three-year Revolving Credit Facility maturing on October 23, 2012.  

 2011 Debt Issuance and Repayment. On February 2, 2011, we repurchased approximately $11 million of our CODES as a result of the exercise by the holders of their contractual right to require us to repurchase their CODES.  

 On February 7, 2011, L-3 Communications issued $650 million in principal amount of 4.95% Senior Notes maturing February 15, 2021 (2021 Senior Notes) at a discount of $4 million. The effective interest rate of the 2021 Senior Notes is 5.02%. Interest on the 2021 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The net cash proceeds from this offering amounted to approximately $640 million after deducting the discounts, commissions and estimated expenses. We will use the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to redeem L-3 Communications’ $650 million 57/8% Senior Subordinated Notes maturing 2015 (2015 Notes). The redemption price is 101.958% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, March 9, 2011, the redemption date. In connection with the redemption of the 2015 Notes, we will record a debt retirement charge in the 2011 first quarter of $18 million ($11 million after income tax, or $0.10 per diluted share).  

 Debt Covenants and Other Provisions. The Revolving Credit Facility, senior notes and senior subordinated notes contain financial and/or other restrictive covenants. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our debt and related financial covenants, including dividend payment and share repurchase restrictions and cross default provisions. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with our financial and other restrictive covenants.   

 55   
 Under select conditions, including if L-3 Holding’s common stock price is more than 120% (currently $118.73) of the then current conversion price ($98.94 as of May 14, 2010) for a specified period, the conversion feature of the CODES will require L-3 Holdings, upon conversion, to pay the holders of the CODES the principal amount in cash, and if the settlement amount exceeds the principal amount, the excess will be settled in cash or stock or a combination thereof, at our option. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the CODES, including conditions for conversion. L-3 Holdings’ closing stock price of February 23, 2010 was $79.45 per share.  

 Guarantees. The borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L-3 Holdings and by substantially all of the material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of L-3 Communications on an unsecured senior basis. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications’ material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other indebtedness. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the senior subordinated notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications’ wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other indebtedness. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the CODES are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other liabilities.  

 Subordination. The guarantees of the Revolving Credit Facility and the senior notes rank senior to the guarantees of the senior subordinated notes and the CODES and rank pari passu with each other. The guarantees of the senior subordinated notes and CODES rank pari passu with each other and are junior to the guarantees of the Revolving Credit Facility and senior notes.  

 Equity  

 During 2010 and 2009, L-3 Holdings’ Board of Directors authorized the following quarterly cash dividends:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 On February 8, 2011, L-3 Holdings announced that its Board of Directors had increased L-3 Holdings’ regular quarterly cash dividend by 12.5% to $0.45 per share, payable on March 15, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2011.  

 On February 16, 2011, the number of holders of L-3 Holdings’ common stock was approximately 58,000. On February 23, 2011, the closing price of L-3 Holdings common stock, as reported by the NYSE, was $79.45 per share.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2010, L-3 Holdings repurchased $834 million, or 11.0 million shares, of its common stock compared to $505 million, or 7.0 million shares, of its common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

 56   
 Contractual Obligations  

 The table below presents our estimated total contractual obligations at December 31, 2010, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents principal amount of long-term debt and only includes scheduled principal payments.   

  (2)   As of May 14, 2010, the CODES are convertible into cash and shares of L-3 Holdings’ common stock based on a conversion rate of 10.1074 shares of L-3 Holdings common stock per one thousand dollars in principal amount of the CODES (equivalent to a conversion price of $98.94 per share). The conversion feature of the CODES may require L-3 Holdings to settle the principal amount with the holders of the CODES if L-3 Holdings common stock price is more than 120% of the then current conversion price (currently $118.73) for a specified period, and if the settlement amount exceeds the principal amount, the excess will be settled in cash or stock or a combination thereof, at our option. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the CODES, including conditions for conversion and contingent interest features. L-3 Holdings stock price on February 23, 2011 was $79.45.   

  (3)   Represents expected interest payments on L-3’s long-term debt balance as of December 31, 2010 using the stated interest rate on our fixed rate debt, assuming that current borrowings remain outstanding to the contractual maturity date. The interest payments do not reflect the impact of the 2011 debt issuance and repayment. For additional information regarding the 2011 debt issuance and repayment, see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.   

  (4)   Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of estimated sublease rental income.   

  (5)   Represents open purchase orders at December 31, 2010 for amounts expected to be paid for goods or services that are legally binding.   

  (6)   Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of workers compensation and deferred compensation for the years ending December 31, 2012 and thereafter and also include pension and postretirement benefit plan contributions that we expect to pay in 2011.   

  (7)   Our pension and postretirement benefit plan funding policy is generally to contribute in accordance with cost accounting standards that affect government contractors, subject to the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereon. For 2011, we expect to contribute approximately $185 million to our pension plans and approximately $13 million to our postretirement benefit plans. Due to the current uncertainty of the amounts used to compute our expected pension and postretirement benefit plan funding, we believe it is not practicable to reasonably estimate such future funding for periods in excess of one year and we may decide or be required to contribute more than we expect to our pension and postretirement plans.   

  (8)   Excludes all income tax obligations, a portion of which represents unrecognized tax benefits in connection with uncertain tax positions taken, or expected to be taken on our income tax returns as of December 31, 2010 since we cannot determine the time period of future tax consequences. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements.     

 57   
 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 The table below presents our estimated total contingent commitments and other guarantees at December 31, 2010, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents outstanding letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers. These letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event of L-3’s nonperformance.   

  (2)   Represents the minimum guarantees made by L-3 or lessee (i) under the purchase option for certain operating leases in which the lease renewal is not exercised and (ii) for 50% of certain bank debt related to a joint venture arrangement (see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of these guarantees).   

  (3)   Represents potential additional contingent purchase payments for business acquisitions that are contingent upon the post-acquisition financial performance or certain other performance conditions of the acquired businesses in accordance with the contractual purchase agreement.   

  (4)   The total amount does not include residual value guarantees for two real estate lease agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. We have the right to exercise options under the lease agreements to purchase both properties for $28 million on or before August 31, 2011. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further description of these leases.    

 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  

 We are engaged in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government and, to a lesser degree, under foreign government contracts, some of which are funded by the U.S. Government. All such contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and, periodically, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in the suspension for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. A conviction, or an administrative finding that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, none of which we anticipate will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 We continually assess our obligations with respect to applicable environmental protection laws. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost that we will incur to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that even without considering potential insurance recoveries, if any, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, we have been periodically subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business. We accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For a description of our legal proceedings and contingencies, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.   

 58   
 Derivative Financial Instruments and Other Market Risk  

 Included in our derivative financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts. All of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to market risk are entered into for purposes other than trading.  

 Interest Rate Risk. Our Revolving Credit Facility is subject to variable interest and is therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. The interest rates on the Senior Notes, senior subordinated notes, and CODES are fixed-rate and are not affected by changes in interest rates. Additional data on our debt obligations and our applicable borrowing spreads included in the interest rates we would pay on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, if any, are provided in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. To protect the functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with certain of these contracts, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are generally designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2010, the notional value of foreign currency forward contracts was $337 million and the net fair value of these contracts was an asset of $17 million. The notional values of our foreign currency forward contracts with maturities ranging through 2015 and thereafter are presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented  

 For a discussion of accounting standards issued and not yet implemented, see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Inflation  

 The effect of inflation on our sales and earnings has not been significant. Although a majority of our sales are made under long-term contracts (revenue arrangements), the selling prices of such contracts, established for deliveries in the future, generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in these future periods. In addition, some of our contracts provide for price adjustments through cost escalation clauses.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 Certain of the matters discussed concerning our operations, cash flows, financial position, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business and the realization of sales from backlog, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  

 Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, including projections of total sales growth, sales growth from business acquisitions, organic sales growth, consolidated operating margins, total segment operating margins, interest expense, earnings, cash flow, research and development costs, working capital, capital expenditures and other projections, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties, and therefore, it is possible that these statements may not be achieved. Such statements will also be influenced by factors which include, among other things:  

    •   our dependence on the defense industry and the business risks peculiar to that industry, including changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget;   

    •   our reliance on contracts with a limited number of agencies of, or contractors to, the U.S. Government and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform;     

 59   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 60   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In addition, for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” and Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements, in each case included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

 Readers of this document are cautioned that our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.  

 As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this filing to reflect events or changes in circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk