ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors    

 The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Company is subject to substantially the same risk factors as other U.S.-based global industrial manufacturers, although the Company believes that its decentralized structure and the broad array of end markets that its businesses serve mitigates the possibility that any single risk factor will materially adversely effect the Company’s consolidated financial position.  

 A downturn or further downturn in the major markets served by the Company may adversely affect results.  

 While the Company’s businesses serve a broad array of end markets, a sustained downturn or further downturn in the construction, general industrial, automotive or food institutional/restaurant and service markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operation or financial condition.  

 Deterioration in international and domestic business and economic conditions may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations.  

 The Company currently has approximately 825 business units in 52 countries. In 2007, approximately 49% of the Company’s revenues were generated outside of the United States. As the Company continues to expand its global footprint these sales may represent an ever increasing portion of the Company’s revenues. Deterioration in either international or domestic business and economic conditions could occur as a result of a number of factors including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 9   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 If the Company is unable to manage successfully the risks associated with expanding its international business or adequately manage operational fluctuations internationally, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 Unfavorable impact on raw materials which could adversely affect results.  

 The Company’s supply of raw materials for its businesses could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. While the Company generally attempts to pass along increased raw material prices to its customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the Company’s ability to increase the prices of its products, or it may be unable to increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure or other factors.  

 The Company’s suppliers of component parts may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of raw materials that they use to manufacture their component parts. In those circumstances, the Company may not be able to increase its prices commensurately with its increased costs. Consequently, its results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.  

 The Company’s future growth is, in part, dependent upon introducing new products and preserving its intellectual property.  

 The Company’s ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and materially adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.  

 Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.  

 An unfavorable environment for making acquisitions may adversely affect the Company’s future growth.  

 The Company completed 52 acquisitions in 2007 resulting in approximately $995 million of acquired annualized revenue. The Company expects to continue its strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services as well as larger acquisitions that represent potential new platforms. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts, its ability to continue to grow could be adversely affected.  

 Unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes paid are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and  

 10   

 by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.  

 Potential adverse outcome in legal proceedings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company’s businesses expose it to potential toxic tort and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that it uses or resells. The Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate insurance programs consisting of self-insurance up to a certain limit and excess insurance coverage for claims over the established limit. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance programs will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Even if it maintains adequate insurance programs, successful claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance in the future.  

  ITEM 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 None.  

  ITEM 2.    Properties