Part I  

 Item 1. Business  

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is located in Omaha, Nebraska.  

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses.  

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses  

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through approximately 70 domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.  

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.  

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.  

Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.  

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their state of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed or write policies on a non-admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business, as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders. Dividends and capital distributions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.  

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states that they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable from the admitted insurance markets of a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by insureds’ direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates and policy forms.  

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In  

1  

Table of Contents 

 addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.  

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers was approximately $94 billion at December 31, 2010. All of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, and nearly all are currently rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating performance.  

The insurance industry experienced severe losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. As a result, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses was signed into law. The Program has subsequently been extended to December 31, 2014 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of terrorism” as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of a foreign person or interest which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5 million. TRIA currently establishes that the industry insured loss for a certified event must exceed $100 million. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Terrorism exclusions that were contained within reinsurance contracts remain in effect. Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.  

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 85% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group’s deductible. Under the Program currently in effect, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2011 for Berkshire’s consolidated insurance and reinsurance businesses will be approximately $300 million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.  

For many years, the insurance industry has been subject to personal injury claims arising from exposure to asbestos. The magnitude of such losses has caused many manufacturers to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Over the years, large numbers of asbestos related claims have been filed, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos, even though no related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress has periodically introduced legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify claimants suffering from asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall cost of those claims. To date, no legislation has passed. It is highly uncertain as to whether or not any legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, how the provisions of such laws will affect Berkshire.  

Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in which the insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses while other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have historically provided insuring capacity to insurance syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. Such capacity entitles the Berkshire subsidiaries to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicates in proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority which maintains comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.  

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain retroactive reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time creating “float” (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does  

2  

Table of Contents 

 not include investment income earned from investments, including investments of “float.” Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries employ approximately 30,000 persons in the aggregate. Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s four underwriting groups follows.  

GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company and GEICO Casualty Company. These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, boat and life insurance to individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone.  

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use a traditional agency sales force. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. This arises as a result of underestimating ultimate claim costs and/or overestimating the amount of investment income expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as a result of premiums being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy.  

As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 49% over the past five years. GEICO is currently the third largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms of premium volume. According to A.M. Best, the five largest automobile insurers have a combined market share of about 50%, with GEICO’s current market share being 8.8%. Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.  

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for preferred-risk private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. Price tends to be the primary focus for other risks. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims.  

The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.  

General Re—General Re Corporation (“General Re”) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC’s subsidiaries include General Reinsurance AG (formerly Kölnische Rückversicherungs—Gesellschaft AG (Cologne Re)), a major international reinsurer based in Germany. GRC increased its ownership in General Reinsurance AG during 2009 from 95% to 100%. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 56 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.  

Property/Casualty Reinsurance  

General Re’s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii where it is an accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without involving a broker or intermediary. Coverages are written primarily on an excess basis and under treaty and facultative contracts. In 2010, approximately 30% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 54% related to property reinsurance coverages.  

General Re’s property/casualty business in North America also includes a few smaller specialty insurers (primarily the General Star and Genesis companies domiciled in Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio). These specialty insurers underwrite primarily liability and workers’ compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis and excess insurance for self-insured programs. In 2010, the specialty insurers represented approximately 16% of General Re’s North American property/casualty net written premiums.  

3  

Table of Contents 

General Re’s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct basis (via General Reinsurance AG as well as several other General Re subsidiaries in 26 countries) and through brokers (primarily via Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435). Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty reinsurance coverage. In 2010, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.  

Life/Health Reinsurance  

General Re’s North American and international life, health, long-term care and disability reinsurance coverages are written on an individual and group basis. Most of this business is written on a proportional treaty basis, with the exception of the U.S. group health and disability business which is predominately written on an excess treaty basis. Lesser amounts of life and disability business are written on a facultative basis. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2010, approximately 40% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 26% were written in Western Europe and the remaining 34% were written throughout the rest of the world.  

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through a group of subsidiary companies, led by National Indemnity Company (“NICO”) and Columbia Insurance Company (“Columbia”). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. BHRG’s underwriting activities also include life reinsurance and life annuity business written through Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska and financial guaranty insurance written through Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation.  

The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms as perceived by management, and can change rapidly. The level of BHRG’s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets.  

BHRG writes catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty reinsurance contracts. BHRG also writes individual policies for primarily large or otherwise unusual discrete risks on both an excess direct and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as “individual risk,” which includes policies covering terrorism, natural catastrophe and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess policy provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of related events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a number of contracts.  

BHRG generally does not cede risks assumed under catastrophe excess reinsurance contracts or individual risk contracts to third parties due to, in part, perceived uncertainties in recovering amounts from other reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result, catastrophe and individual risk business produces extremely volatile periodic underwriting results. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such coverages.  

BHRG periodically assumes risks under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an excess basis and is normally subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Significant amounts of environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts. In certain instances, the coverages afforded under retroactive reinsurance contracts are significant. In March 2007, an agreement became effective between NICO and Equitas, a London based entity established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years’ non-life liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London. Under the agreement NICO is providing up to $7 billion of new excess reinsurance to Equitas. In 2009, NICO agreed to provide up to 5 billion Swiss Francs (approximately $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2010) of aggregate excess retroactive protection to Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its affiliates (“Swiss Re”). In 2010, BHRG entered into a reinsurance agreement with Continental Casualty Company, a subsidiary of CNA Financial Corporation (“CNA”), and several of CNA’s other insurance subsidiaries (collectively the “CNA Companies”) under which BHRG assumed the asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities of the CNA Companies subject to a limit of indemnification of $4 billion.  

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy  

4  

Table of Contents 

 periods of time. Losses payable under the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds (“float”) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment income in future periods.  

BHRG also underwrites traditional non-catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverages, referred to as multi-line business. Effective January 1, 2008, traditional non-catastrophe reinsurance includes a five-year 20% quota-share of property and casualty business underwritten by Swiss Re.  

In 2010, BHRG entered into a new life reinsurance contract with Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc. (“SRLHA”). Under the agreement, BHRG assumed the liabilities and subsequent renewal premiums associated with a closed block of yearly renewable term reinsurance business reinsuring permanent and term products and universal life products written, assumed or subsequently acquired by SRLHA. BHRG assumed the mortality risk on the underlying lives with respect to the SRLHA business effective as of October 1, 2009, until the underlying yearly renewable term reinsured policy non-renews or the insurer ceding the business to SRLHA recaptures the business. The agreement is expected to remain in-force for several decades and, over time, is expected to result in substantial premiums earned and life benefits incurred. At the end of 2010, BHRG also acquired the life reinsurance business of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada. BHRG’s results will include the results of this business beginning in 2011.  

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is a collection of primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to insureds located principally in the United States. NICO and certain affiliates underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.  

U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”), through its three subsidiaries led by United States Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market approximately 95 distinct specialty property and casualty insurance products.  

Medical Protective Corporation (“MedPro”) is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Through its subsidiary, the Medical Protective Company, MedPro is a national leader in primary medical professional liability coverage and risk solutions to physicians, dentists, other healthcare providers and healthcare facilities. As one of the nation’s first providers of medical professional liability insurance, MedPro has provided insurance coverage to healthcare providers for over 100 years. MedPro’s insurance policies are distributed through a nationwide network of employee market managers and appointed agents.  

In 2006, Berkshire acquired Applied Underwriters, Inc. (“Applied”), a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and medium-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries, including two workers’ compensation insurance companies, principally markets SolutionOne®, a product that bundles a variety of related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to medium-sized employers. Applied also markets EquityComp™ which is a workers’ compensation–only product targeted to medium sized employers with a profit sharing component.  

In 2007, Berkshire acquired Boat America Corporation, which owns Seaworthy Insurance Company and controls the Boat Owners Association of the United States (collectively “BoatU.S.”). BoatU.S. provides insurance, safety and other services to recreational watercraft owners and enthusiasts.  

Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as “Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies,” based in California, Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices in several other states. These companies market workers’ compensation, commercial auto and various other commercial coverages for standard risks. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha located in Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance and related services marketed primarily to credit and debit card holders nationwide.  

Property and casualty loss reserves  

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves for estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle  

5  

Table of Contents 

 claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to “Critical Accounting Policies,” included in Item 7 of this Report.  

The table below presents the development of Berkshire’s net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 2000 through 2010. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward.  

Berkshire’s management believes that the reserves established as of December 31, 2010 are reasonable and adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.  

6  

Table of Contents 

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the gross liability reflected in Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.  

Certain workers’ compensation loss reserves are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after 2002. In addition, deferred charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses over the premiums received. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.  

The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid losses, net of reserve discounts and deferred charges, based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The re-estimated amount reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining unpaid reserves. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2010. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization.  

The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other columns because redundancies or deficiencies arising in earlier years may be included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the contract was entered into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the contract date. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.  

The third part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, and the subsequent payments of claims, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances.  

Investments—Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities, less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes.  

The amount of float has grown from approximately $49 billion at the end of 2005 to approximately $66 billion at the end of 2010, primarily through internal growth. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 75% of total float as of December 31, 2010. Equally important as the amount of the float is its cost, represented by Berkshire’s periodic net underwriting gain or loss. The increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and investment income over the past five years.  

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other publicly traded companies which are concentrated in relatively few companies and large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. Rather, management may increase or decrease investments in response to perceived changes in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.  

Railroad Business  

On February 12, 2010, Berkshire completed its acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. The acquisition was completed through the merger of a wholly-owned merger subsidiary and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. The  

7  

Table of Contents 

 merger subsidiary was the surviving entity and was renamed Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (“BNSF”). BNSF is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF has approximately 38,000 employees as of December 31, 2010.  

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of BNSF are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier, published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. BNSF’s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as Canadian and Mexican traffic. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2010, 31% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 21% from industrial products, 27% from coal and 21% from agricultural products.  

Regulatory Matters  

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of, rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF’s business.  

The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.  

Environmental Matters  

BNSF’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.  

Many of BNSF’s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liability for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.  

Competition  

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads continue to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.  

8  

Table of Contents 

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF’s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2010 was approximately 48 percent.  

Utilities and Energy Businesses  

Berkshire currently owns an 89.8% voting common stock interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”), an international energy company. Following the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and approval by the appropriate federal and state regulatory authorities, on February 9, 2006, Berkshire converted its non-voting convertible preferred stock investment in MidAmerican to voting common stock. Prior to the conversion, Berkshire owned a 9.7% voting interest and an 83.4% economic interest in MidAmerican.  

MidAmerican’s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican’s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of two regulated utility companies serving more than 3 million retail customers and two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 17,000 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of approximately 7.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day. Its United Kingdom electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.8 million electricity end-users. In addition, MidAmerican’s interests include a diversified portfolio of domestic independent power projects, a hydroelectric facility in the Philippines and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.  

General Matters  

PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving regulated retail electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory’s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp’s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity to other utilities, municipalities and energy marketing companies on a wholesale basis.  

As a vertically integrated electric utility, PacifiCorp owns approximately 10,600 net megawatts (“MW”) of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in PacifiCorp’s business. Peak customer demand is typically highest in the summer across PacifiCorp’s service territory when air conditioning and irrigation systems are heavily used. The service territory also has a winter peak, which is primarily due to heating requirements in the western portion of PacifiCorp’s service territory.  

MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving regulated retail electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of residential, agricultural and a variety of commercial and industrial customer groups. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells regulated electricity to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and regulated electricity and natural gas to other utilities, municipalities and energy marketing companies on a wholesale basis and sells non-regulated electricity and natural gas services in deregulated markets.  

As a vertically integrated electric and gas utility, MEC owns approximately 6,500 net MW of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in MEC’s business that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, 35-40% of MEC’s regulated electric revenues are reported in the summer months, while 45-55% of MEC’s regulated natural gas revenues are reported in the winter months.  

Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural”) is based in Nebraska and owns one of the largest interstate natural gas pipeline systems in the United States reaching from southern Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural’s pipeline system consists of approximately 15,000 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural has access to supplies from every major mid-continent basin and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural’s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.  

Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”) is based in Utah and owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that extends from the supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River  

9  

Table of Contents 

 transports natural gas for major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electricity generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, financial institutions and natural gas distribution utilities. Kern River’s pipeline system consists of approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines and its scheduled throughput regularly exceeds its design capacity.  

MidAmerican, through Northern Electric Distribution Limited (“Northern Electric”) and Yorkshire Electricity Distribution plc (“Yorkshire Electricity”), owns a substantial United Kingdom electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of electrical infrastructure.  

Regulatory Matters  

PacifiCorp and MEC are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”), the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting; securities issuances; and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.  

Except for Oregon, Washington and Illinois, both PacifiCorp and MEC have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its costs of providing services and to earn a reasonable return on its investments. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp and MEC are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.  

Northern Natural and Kern River are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC, which administers, most significantly, the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities. Interstate pipeline companies are also subject to regulation by a federal agency within the United States Department of Transportation, pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas facilities, and the Federal Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which implemented additional safety and pipeline integrity regulations for high consequence areas.  

Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The distribution price control formula is generally reviewed and reset at five-year intervals. The current price control period commenced April 1, 2010.  

Environmental Matters  

MidAmerican and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproducts, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact MidAmerican’s current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.  

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation’s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to evolve and will likely impact the operation of MidAmerican’s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities through the installation of additional emission control equipment or to purchase additional emission allowances.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California and Iowa have adopted renewable portfolio standards.  

The increased global attention to climate change has resulted in significant measures being proposed at the federal level to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The United States Congress has considered, but has not adopted, comprehensive climate change legislation, which included a market-based cap-and-trade program that was intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. In addition, governmental, nongovernmental and environmental organizations have become more active in pursuing climate change related litigation under existing laws. In 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency published findings that greenhouse gas emissions threaten the public health and welfare and is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Federal Clean Air Act. While the debate continues at the federal and international level over the direction of climate change policy, several states have developed or are developing state-specific laws or regional initiatives to report or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.  

The impact of pending federal, regional, state and international accords, legislation, regulation or judicial proceedings related to climate change cannot be quantified in any meaningful range at this time. New requirements limiting greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on MidAmerican, the United States and the global economy.  

MidAmerican continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, as of December 31, 2010, MidAmerican owns 2,316 megawatts of wind-powered generating capacity at a total cost of $4.4 billion. MEC has begun construction of an additional 593 megawatts of wind-powered generating facilities to be placed in service in 2011.  

Non-Energy Businesses  

MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”), the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. HomeServices also offers integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations through a joint venture, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 22 residential real estate brand names with over 15,000 sales associates and nearly 300 broker offices in 20 states. HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.  

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses  

Berkshire’s numerous and diverse manufacturing, service and retailing businesses are described below.  

Marmon—In 2008, Berkshire acquired approximately 64% of the outstanding common stock of Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”), a private company owned by trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, Berkshire will acquire additional shares of outstanding stock held by noncontrolling shareholders in 2011, which will increase Berkshire’s aggregate interest in Marmon to approximately 80.2%. Berkshire will acquire the remaining equity interests in Marmon during 2013 and 2014 for consideration to be based on Marmon’s future earnings.  

Marmon consists of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate independently within eleven diverse, stand-alone business sectors. These sectors are Building Wire, providing copper electrical building wire for residential, commercial and industrial construction; Construction Services, providing the leasing and operation of mobile cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets; Distribution Services, supplying specialty metal pipe and tubing, bar and sheet products to markets including construction, industrial, aerospace and many others; Engineered Wire & Cable, providing electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries; Flow Products, producing copper, aluminum and brass products and materials for the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, refrigeration, construction, automotive and industrial markets; Food Service Equipment, supplying commercial food preparation equipment for restaurants and shopping carts for retail stores; Highway Technologies, primarily serving the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, fifth wheel coupling devices and undercarriage products such as brake parts and suspension systems, and also serving the light vehicle aftermarkets with clutches and related products; Industrial Products, consisting of metal fasteners for the building, furniture, cabinetry, industrial and other markets, safety products such as gloves for industrial markets, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets, and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems, and custom-machined brass, aluminum and copper forgings for the construction, valve and other industries; Retail Store Fixtures, providing shelving and other merchandising displays and related services for retail stores worldwide; Transportation Services &  

11  

Table of Contents 

 Engineered Products, including manufacturing, leasing and maintenance of railroad tank cars, leasing of intermodal tank containers, in-plant rail services, manufacturing of bi-modal railcar movers, wheel, axle and gear sets for light rail transit and gear products for locomotives, manufacturing of steel tank heads, and services, equipment and technology for processing and distributing sulfur; and Water Treatment, equipment including residential water softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.  

Marmon operates more than 250 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities that are primarily located in North America, Europe and China, and employs about 16,000 people worldwide.  

McLane Company—McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) provides wholesale distribution and logistics services in all 50 states and internationally in Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience stores, wholesale clubs, quick service restaurants, drug stores and military bases. Prior to Berkshire’s acquisition in 2003, McLane was an integral part of the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”) distribution network. McLane continues to provide wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart, which accounts for approximately 30% of McLane’s revenues. McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control. Operations are divided into five business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution, beverage distribution, international logistics and software development. In 2010, the grocery and foodservice units comprised 98% of the total revenues of the company. McLane and its subsidiaries employ approximately 15,000 employees  

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 36,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 22 facilities in 18 states.  

McLane’s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services more than 18,000 chain restaurants nationwide.  

On April 23, 2010, McLane acquired Kahn Ventures, parent company of Empire Distributors and Empire Distributors of North Carolina. Kahn Ventures and its subsidiaries are wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are conducted through eight distribution centers in two states. On December 31, 2010, Kahn Ventures acquired Horizon Wine and Spirits, Inc. Operations of Horizon are conducted through two distribution centers located in Tennessee.  

Other Manufacturing, Other Service and Retailing Businesses  

Apparel Manufacturing—Berkshire’s apparel manufacturing businesses include manufacturers of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing products include Fruit of the Loom, Inc. (“Fruit”), Russell Brands, LLC (“Russell”), Vanity Fair Brands, LP (“VFB”), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses include H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands  

Fruit, Russell and VFB (together “FOL”) are headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear and athletic apparel and products. FOL maintains the number one market share brand of men’s underwear in the mass merchandise channel. Products, under the Fruit of the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise and wholesale markets. In the VFB product line, Vassarette®, Bestform® and Curvation® are sold in the mass merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold in the mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; college licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores and mid-tier merchants; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. FOL markets and sells running footwear and apparel to specialty retailers under the Brooks® brand. Other brands include American Athletic®, BVD®, Mossy Oak®, Moving Comfort®, Bike®, Dudley®, Discus®, Sherrin®, Gemma®, Lou®, Intima®, and Variance®. In 2010, approximately 30% of FOL’s sales were to Wal-Mart.  

FOL generally performs its own spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the North American market which comprised about 80% of FOL’s net sales in 2010, the majority of its capital-intensive spinning operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with cloth manufacturing performed both in the U.S. and offshore. Labor-intensive sewing and finishing operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean.  

12  

Table of Contents 

 For the European market, products are either outsourced to third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. FOL’s bras, athletic equipment, footwear, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.  

Cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL’s products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton to meet production plans for 2011. In 2010, cotton market prices increased by 80% due to lower worldwide crop yield, export restrictions in India and increasing global demand. These conditions resulted in increased raw material prices across the apparel industry. FOL’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style, quality and customer service.  

Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark Garanimals® and private labels of its customers. Garan also licenses its registered trademark Garanimals® to independent third parties. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. to major national chain stores, department stores and specialty stores. In 2010, over 90% of Garan’s sales were to Wal-Mart. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony Lama®, Nocona® , Chippewas® , Born® , Sofft® , Carolina® , Double-H Boots®, Corcoran® and Matterhorn® . A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are principally sold in the United States through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.  

Building Products Manufacturing—Acme Building Brands (“Acme”) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick®), concrete block (Featherlite) and cut limestone (Texas Quarries). In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including glass block, floor and wall tile and other masonry products. Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as marble, granite and other stones through its subsidiary, American Tile. Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.  

Acme operates 23 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in seven states, seven concrete block facilities in Texas and a stone quarry fabrication facility located in Texas. In addition, Acme operates a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility all located in Texas. In early 2011, Acme acquired the leading brick manufacturer in Alabama. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months and is subject to the level of construction activity which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme’s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.  

Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including Regal®, Superspec® , Moorcraft Superhide®, Moorgard® , Aura® , Nattura® , ben®, Coronado Paint®, Insl-x® and Lenmar® .  

Benjamin Moore and its manufacturing subsidiaries rely primarily on an independent dealer network for the distribution of its products. Its distribution network includes approximately 100 company-owned stores as well as over 4,500 third party retailers currently representing over 13,000 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore’s company-owned stores represent several multiple-outlet and stand-alone retailers in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily contractors and general consumers. The independent retailer channel offers a broad array of products including  

13  

Table of Contents 

 Benjamin Moore® and Insl-x® brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings, window treatments and sundries. Benjamin Moore also has three color stations located in regional malls that serve as brand marketing tools.  

Johns Manville (“JM”) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe and equipment filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 40 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at several other facilities.  

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM holds leadership positions in all of the key markets that it serves and typically competes with a few large global and national competitors and several smaller, regional competitors. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.  

MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light gauge steel framing market under the Ultra-Span® name, manufactures and markets assembly line machinery used by the lead acid battery industry, manufactures and markets a line of masonry connector products and manufactures and markets air handling systems used in commercial building. MiTek operates on six continents with sales into approximately 90 countries. MiTek has 28 manufacturing facilities located in eleven countries and 44 sales/engineering offices located in 16 countries.  

The Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted carpet, tufted and woven rugs, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and sells ceramic tile. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw’s carpet, rugs and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw acquired Sportexe in 2009 which will provide an entry into the sports turf market.  

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 40,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,000 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s 12 carpet full-service distribution facilities, three hard surface and four rug full-service distribution facilities and 30 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.  

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2010 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but margins are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.  

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 60% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Demand for products of Berkshire’s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of U.S. housing construction. Construction activity in the United States has been depressed over the past three years as a result of general economic conditions and there have also been declines in European commercial construction and industrial activity as well.  

The building products businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances.  

Other Manufacturing Businesses  

Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in ISCAR Metalworking Companies B.V. (“IMC B.V.”) in 2006. IMC B.V., based in Tefen, Israel, is one of the world’s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets under the brand names ISCAR® , TaeguTec® , Ingersoll® , Tungaloy® , Unitac® , UOP It.te.di® and Outiltec® . IMC B.V.’s manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.  

IMC B.V. has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufactures to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC B.V. manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers.  

IMC B.V.’s global sales and marketing network has representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC B.V.’s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC B.V. operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC B.V. offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.  

IMC B.V. competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinationals with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.  

Forest River, Inc. (“Forest River”) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility, cargo and office trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has manufacturing facilities in six states. In December 2008, Forest River acquired the recreational vehicle assets of Coachmen Industries, Inc.  

The Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of 20 businesses that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell Hausfeld products. Albecca Inc. (“Albecca”), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, does business primarily under the Larson-Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 15 countries outside of North America. CTB International Corp., headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of systems used in the grain industry and in the production of poultry, hogs and eggs.  

Other Service Businesses  

FlightSafety International Inc. (“FSI”), headquartered at LaGuardia Airport in Flushing, New York, is engaged primarily in the business of providing high technology training to operators of aircraft. FSI’s training activities include: advanced pilot training to business and corporate operators of aircraft and air traffic control procedures; aircrew training for military and other government personnel; aircraft maintenance technician training; and ab-initio (primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial pilots’ licenses. FSI also develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use in its training business and for sale to others.  

15  

Table of Contents 

A significant part of FSI’s training programs is derived from the use of simulators, which incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the operation of specific aircraft. Simulators reproduce, with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights, movements and aircraft control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft. FSI utilizes 494 training devices, including 293 civil aviation simulators. FSI’s training businesses are conducted primarily in the United States, with facilities located in 17 states. FSI also operates training facilities in Canada, France, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. FSI also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual displays and other training equipment for use in its training business and for sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas.  

NetJets Inc. (“NJ”) is the world’s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. NJ’s executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NJ’s European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The fractional aircraft ownership concept permits customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NJ provides management, ground support and flight operation services. NJ is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, which address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues. In November 2010, NJ acquired Marquis Jet Holdings, Inc. (“Marquis”), formerly operated independently but party to an exclusive alliance with NJ. Marquis leases and purchases fractional interests and management services from NJ and resells them to its customers in the form of a prepaid Marquis Jet Card, which entitles the customer to 25 hours of flight time. This element of NJ’s business currently approximates 8% of NJ annual revenues.  

The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.  

In 2007, Berkshire acquired TTI, Inc. (“TTI”), an electronic component distributor headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. TTI is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical and discrete components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic components. TTI’s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military, industrial users, and commercial customers. TTI services a variety of industries and products including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI’s business model is organized between its core business of supporting high volume production business and its catalog division which supports lower volume purchases with a broader customer base and higher margins. TTI operates distribution centers in North America, Europe and Israel. TTI operates from more than 90 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia, and Israel.  

Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases daily to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and 45 languages. Roughly 90% of the company’s revenue comes from the core business of news distribution. The Pampered Chef, LTD (“TPC”) is the premier direct seller of high quality kitchen tools in the United States. Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. The Buffalo News publishes three editions on Saturday and Sunday and five editions each weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York. International Dairy Queen services a system of about 6,000 stores operating under the names Dairy Queen®, Orange Julius® and Karmelkorn® that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods.  

Retailing Businesses— Berkshire’s retailing businesses principally consist of several independently managed home furnishings and jewelry operations. Information regarding each of these operations follows.  

The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”) and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.  

NFM operates its business from two very large retail complexes with almost one million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska and Kansas City, Kansas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of its markets. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space.  

16  

Table of Contents 

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey operates 11 retail stores, two retail clearance facilities and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.5 million square feet of retail space with eight stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California. Star’s retail facilities include about 740,000 square feet of retail space in 12 locations. Star’s retail facilities are located in Texas with nine in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from four locations with approximately 520,000 square feet of retail space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.  

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheims”) operates from a single store located in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg”), based in North Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of 234 retail jewelry stores in 37 states. Most of Helzberg’s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers or power strip centers, and all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds®. The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 73 upscale retail jewelry stores in 12 states, primarily in the Western United States. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with approximately 40% of annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.  

Also included in Berkshire’s group of retailing businesses is See’s Candies (“See’s”), which produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco, California. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 50% of total annual revenues earned in the months of November and December.  

Finance and Financial Products  

Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31, 2010, Clayton operated 34 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,462 retailers, including 354 company-owned home centers. Financing is offered through its finance subsidiaries to purchasers of Clayton’s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers.  

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are facilitated by Clayton’s offering of various finance and insurance programs. Finance programs include home note and mortgage originations supporting company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed and include gross income, debt to income limits and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Approximately 50% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 50% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is about 22%, which may be from cash or land equity. Each loan with land will have an independent appraisal in order to establish the value of the land. Originations are all fixed rate and fixed term. Loans outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and services housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.  

XTRA Corporation (“XTRA”), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 88,000 units located at 66 facilities throughout the United States and four facilities in Canada. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the two largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA’s utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.  

17  

Table of Contents 

BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above average investment returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative contracts and assumes foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in general. This business is conducted from Berkshire’s corporate headquarters. CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry.  

Berkshire employed approximately 260,000 persons at December 31, 2010.  

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses  

The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 21 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Registrant’s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities and other investments is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).  

18  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors