PART I

Item 1.Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“Interpublic,” “IPG,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 43,300 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world, as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services and gain market share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region, or deliver global integrated programs.

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages corporate social responsibility programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services. 

Our Brands

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks, McCann Worldgroup ("McCann"), Draftfcb and Lowe & Partners ("Lowe"), that provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients, and three global media services companies, UM, Initiative and Brand Programming Network ("BPN"), operating under the IPG Mediabrands umbrella. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and interactive agencies that are industry leaders.

•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network, comprised of a collaborative group of best-in-class agencies that emphasize creativity, innovation and performance. It operates 180 offices in more than 100 countries with a client roster that includes many of the world's most famous brands. McCann Erickson is one of the world's largest advertising agency networks; MRM conducts digital marketing and relationship management; Momentum oversees event marketing and promotion; McCann Health directs professional and consumer healthcare communications; and Craft Worldwide is the network's global adaptation and production arm. UM (media management), Weber Shandwick (public relations), and FutureBrand (brand consulting) align with McCann Worldgroup to deliver fully integrated solutions to a number of our leading clients. 

•Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients seeking creative and accountable marketing programs delivered in a media-neutral manner under a unified, integrated business. The company has its roots in both consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing. We believe the agency is the first global, behavior-based, creative and accountable marketing communications organization operating as a financially and structurally integrated business unit.

•Lowe is a premier creative agency that operates in the world’s most dynamic growth markets. Lowe's core strength is developing high-value ideas that connect with popular culture and drive business results. This is evident in the agency's global creative rankings and strong local operations in major key markets. Examples include DLKW/Lowe (U.K.), Lowe Lintas (India), Lowe SSP3 (Colombia) and BorghiErh/Lowe (Brazil), as well as its relationship with Deutsch (U.S.) and other leading U.S. independent agencies within IPG.

•IPG Mediabrands delivers on the scale and breadth of our media capabilities, making investment decisions for tens of billions of dollars of client marketing budgets, yet retains a nimble, collaborative culture. Our media agencies UM, Initiative and BPN seek to deliver business results by advising clients on how to navigate an increasingly complex and digital marketing landscape. Specialist brands within IPG Mediabrands focus on areas such as media innovation, the targeting and aggregation of audiences in the digital space, hyper-local marketing, media barter and a range of other capabilities.

2

•We also have exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. We have industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris which have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. Our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA and HUGE, are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our premier healthcare communications specialists reside within our three global brands, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe. 

•Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Campbell-Ewald, Carmichael Lynch, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency and Mullen. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, customer relationship management (CRM), public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.

We list approximately 95 of our companies on our website under the "Our Agencies" section, with descriptions, case studies, social media channels and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at http://www.interpublic.com.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative and strategic talent in fast-growth digital marketing channels and high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our company to enhance our operations through mergers and strategic alliances, as well as the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:

•We re-organized our media operations under a single management structure, IPG Mediabrands, to reinvent how we plan, buy and measure media investment on behalf of our clients. We aligned a spectrum of specialist media companies under this structure and we have invested in technology and analytics, including the launch of the IPG Media Lab in New York in 2011, a highly advanced resource for our clients. Additionally, during 2012, we launched a third global full service media buying and planning agency, BPN, with a focus on new technologies and a pay-for-performance compensation. BPN currently has offices in 20 countries and during 2013 plans to expand into several new markets to have operations that extend across the world. Since launch in 2008, IPG Mediabrands has delivered industry-leading performance and growth.

•We moved Lowe to a hub model, focused on a smaller and more strategic global footprint, and significantly revamped its management team in an effort to turn around its operating performance. Once this approach began to yield positive results, we strengthened Lowe's capabilities in the key Brazil and U.K. markets through acquisitions. In the U.S., we further aligned Lowe with select fully integrated and digital domestic agencies to create a more powerful offering from which to service and source multinational clients.

•We combined a global creative agency with our leading direct marketing agency to create Draftfcb, our modern global agency network that combines accountability with creativity under a single P&L. We continue to enhance the service offering at Draftfcb.

•At our marketing services division, Constituency Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen our market leading public relations and events marketing specialists. In recent years, we developed significant social media practices across CMG agencies and expanded our operations in Latin America, China and the Middle East.

•New global leadership at McCann Worldgroup ensures it is well-positioned to deliver best-in-class integrated marketing communications solutions in all geographic regions for many of the world's largest and most sophisticated advertisers, including local, regional and multinational clients. During 2012, we acquired specialty marketing agencies within McCann, extending its capabilities in strategically important disciplines, and launched Craft Worldwide globally, a unique adaptation and production business unit.

•During the last several years we have invested in the international expansion of our digital brands R/GA, HUGE, MRM and several of our agencies under the Mediabrands Audience Platform. We have opened new offices and expanded existing offices in high growth markets as well as strategic world markets during 2012, and we expect to continue this strategic investment in future years.

3

Digital Growth

Demand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should not be treated as a stand-alone function, but should, instead, be integrated within all of our companies, mirroring the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits, and, ultimately, their day-to-day life. Recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines is an area in which we continue to invest.

To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have acquired and incubated specialty digital assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), HUGE (e-commerce solutions), Cadreon (audience management platform), The IPG Media Lab as well as strategic investments in mobile marketing capabilities. We have also continued to invest in existing digital assets such as R/GA, a digital agency and industry leader in the development of award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients, as well as MRM, a leading global digital agency. These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.

Fast-Growth Regions

We continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to invest and expand our presence in high-growth geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in India and Brazil, further strengthening our leadership position in these high-growth, developing markets. Recent transactions completed in Brazil include the acquisition of S2 Publicom, a leading public relations company, and the acquisition of CuboCC, a new media and digital marketing services company. Our operations in India continue to be best-in-class as we support our strong growth in the region with partnerships and talent investment, giving us a leadership position in this important market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 65 offices across 13 countries. Our partner in Russia is a leader in that country. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in talent and behind our agency brands. Additional areas of investment include other key strategic markets in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Africa.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions to enhance our service offerings. Our focus will continue to be predominantly on digital and marketing services agencies throughout the world, as well as international growth markets. We will continue to be disciplined in our investments for acquisitions and in the organic development and acquisition of talent in all of our agency brands. 

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full service capabilities. All of these acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or agencies.

Financial Objectives

Our long-term financial goals include competitive organic revenue growth and operating margin expansion, which we expect will further strengthen our liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years, and which continue, allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage our business.

We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.

Financial Reporting Segments

We have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and CMG. IAN is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb, Lowe, Mediabrands and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

4

Principal Markets

Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information regarding revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.

Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity services.

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges.

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work completed that is typically recognized during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.

5

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 22% of revenue in 2012 and 2011. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% of revenue for 2012 and 2011. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, our five largest clients (in alphabetical order) were General Motors, Johnson & Johnson, Microsoft, Unilever and Verizon. We represent several different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 43,300 people, of whom approximately 17,600 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies, and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at http://www.interpublic.com under the "Investor Relations" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at http://www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Item 1A.Risk Factors