ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our credit agreements. The credit agreements are at variable rates. A change in interest rates under the credit agreements impacts the interest that we incur and our cash flows. At December 31, 2008, no amounts were outstanding under our credit agreement; consequently, no sensitivity analysis is presented.  

Our convertible notes carry interest at a fixed rate of 3.0 percent. For fixed rate debt, interest rate changes impact the fair value of the notes but do not impact earnings or cash flows. The fair value of the notes at December 31, 2008, was approximately $507.4 million compared to a carrying value of $190.3 million. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the fair value would be approximately $50.7 million.  

We have assets and liabilities outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, certain revenues from products sold in foreign countries are denominated in foreign currencies. For more information on our foreign currency translation, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Europe. Our investments in foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the United States dollar are considered long-term. We do not currently engage in forward currency exchange contracts or similar hedging activities to reduce our economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. Because we market, sell and license our products throughout the world, we could be adversely affected by weak economic conditions in foreign markets that could reduce demand for our products.  

Our net investment in foreign subsidiaries, translated into United States dollars using the period-end exchange rates at December 31, was approximately $330.1 million and $295.7 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign exchange rates would be approximately $33.0 million and $29.6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in the potential loss in fair value is primarily due to the increase in the net investment of foreign subsidiaries. The Company has no plans to liquidate any of its foreign subsidiaries, and therefore, foreign exchange rate gains or losses on our foreign investments are reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment and do not reduce our reported net earnings.  

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA