PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of the Business

Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923.

For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions “Executive Overview and Outlook,” “Results of Operations,” “Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

(b) Financial Information about Segments

Worldwide Net sales and Operating profit by business segment and geographic region during the last three years appear under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this report and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(c) Narrative Description of the Business

The Company manages its business in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in Oral Care with the leading toothpaste and manual toothbrush brands throughout many parts of the world according to value share data provided by ACNielsen. Colgate’s Oral Care products include Colgate Total, Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Optic White and Colgate Luminous White toothpastes, Colgate 360° manual toothbrushes and Colgate and Colgate Plax mouth rinses. Colgate’s Oral Care business also includes dental floss and pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals.

Colgate is a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, which it sells under the Palmolive, Protex and Softsoap brands. Colgate’s Personal Care products also include Palmolive, Softsoap and Sanex brand shower gels, Palmolive, Irish Spring and Protex bar soaps and Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick and Sanex deodorants and antiperspirants. Colgate is the market leader in liquid hand soap in the U.S. with its line of Softsoap brand products according to value share data provided by ACNielsen. Colgate’s Personal Care business outside the U.S. also includes Palmolive and Caprice shampoo and conditioners.

Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for Home Care, including Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquids, Fabuloso and Ajax household cleaners and Murphy’s Oil Soap. Colgate is a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands including Suavitel in Latin America and Soupline in Europe. Colgate is a market leader in laundry detergent in the South Pacific.

Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 44%, 22% and 21%, respectively, of the Company’s total worldwide Net sales in 2012. Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company’s business in Greater Asia/Africa, comprising approximately 74% of sales in that region for 2012.

1

Colgate, through its Hill’s Pet Nutrition segment (Hill’s), is a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 95 countries worldwide. Hill’s markets pet foods primarily under two trademarks: Hill’s Science Diet, which is sold by authorized pet supply retailers and veterinarians for everyday nutritional needs; and Hill’s Prescription Diet, a range of therapeutic products sold by veterinarians and authorized pet supply retailers to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 13% of the Company’s total worldwide Net sales in 2012.

For more information regarding the Company’s worldwide Net sales by product categories, refer to Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Research and Development

Strong research and development capabilities and alliances enable Colgate to support its many brands with technologically sophisticated products to meet consumers’ oral, personal, home care and pet nutrition needs. The Company’s spending related to research and development activities was $259 million in 2012, $262 million in 2011 and $256 million in 2010.

Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents

The Company’s products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units and by distributors or brokers. No single customer accounts for 10% or more of the Company’s sales.

The majority of raw and packaging materials are purchased from other companies and are available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of the Company’s total material requirements. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities such as resins, tropical oils, essential oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans are subject to market price variations.

The Company’s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains are a source of competition for certain of the Company’s product lines. Product quality and innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products largely determine success in the Company’s business segments.

Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company’s business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where the Company’s products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Sanex, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s Science Diet and Hill’s Prescription Diet. The Company’s rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although the Company actively develops and maintains a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

Environmental Matters

The Company has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed standards established by applicable environmental rules and regulations. Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled $18 million for 2012. For future years, expenditures are currently expected to be of a similar magnitude. For additional information regarding environmental matters refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, the Company employed approximately 37,700 employees.

2

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following is a list of executive officers as of February 21, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years with the exception of Victoria L. Dolan, who joined the Company in 2008 as Vice President, Finance and Strategic Planning, Colgate Europe. Ms. Dolan joined Colgate from Marriott International, Inc. (Marriott), where she served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of its vacation ownership division. Prior to joining Marriott in 2000, Ms. Dolan spent nine years at The Coca-Cola Company in several leadership positions that included Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for the Japan division.

Under the Company’s By-Laws, the officers of the corporation hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board). There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected.

(d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas

For financial data by geographic region, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, of this report and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

(e) Available Information

The Company’s web site address is www.colgatepalmolive.com. The information contained on the Company’s web site is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its web site its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, its current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Also available on the Company’s web site are the Company’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Committees of the Board, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and officers and its proxy statements.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS