Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and significant risks to the company’s business under Item 1A. Risk Factors of the 2016 Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW

Our sales and revenues for 2016 were $38.537 billion, down $8.474 billion, or 18 percent, from $47.011 billion in 2015. Sales declined across the company reflecting weak end-user demand in most of the industries we serve including in construction, oil and gas, mining and rail. A loss of $67 million was incurred in 2016, compared with profit of $2.512 billion in 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower sales volume, the unfavorable impact of higher mark-to-market losses related to remeasurement of our pension and other postemployment benefits (OPEB) plans, unfavorable price realization and a goodwill impairment charge in Resource Industries. These unfavorable items were partially offset by lower costs resulting from restructuring and other cost reduction actions.

Fourth-quarter 2016 sales and revenues were $9.574 billion, a 13 percent decrease from $11.030 billion in the fourth quarter of 2015. A loss of $1.171 billion was incurred in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared with a loss of $94 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The loss was $2.00 per share in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared with a loss per share of $0.16 in the fourth quarter of 2015. Profit declined primarily due to the unfavorable impact of increased mark-to-market losses related to remeasurement of our pension and OPEB plans, a goodwill impairment charge and lower sales volume. These unfavorable items were partially offset by lower costs resulting from restructuring and other cost reduction actions and lower restructuring costs.

Highlights for 2016 include:

•Sales and revenues in 2016 were $38.537 billion, down 18 percent from 2015. Sales declined in all segments and all regions.

•Results for both 2015 and 2016 included significant restructuring costs and 2016 also included three large non-cash items. 

•Restructuring costs were $1.019 billion in 2016, or $1.16 per share, compared with restructuring costs of $898 million in 2015, or $0.98 per share.

•Mark-to-market losses related to remeasurement of our pension and OPEB plans were $985 million in 2016, or $1.15 per share, a significant increase from mark-to-market losses in 2015 of $179 million, or $0.19 per share.

•Results for 2016 included a goodwill impairment charge in Resource Industries of $595 million, or $0.98 per share.

•Results for 2016 included a $141 million charge to increase deferred tax valuation allowances, or $0.24 per share.

•The loss per share was $0.11 for 2016, and excluding the above items, adjusted profit was $3.42 per share. For 2015, profit per share was $4.18, and excluding restructuring costs and mark-to-market losses, adjusted profit was $5.35 per share.

•Inventory declined about $900 million during the fourth quarter of 2016. For the full year, inventory decreased about $1.1 billion.

•Machinery, Energy & Transportation (ME&T) operating cash flow for 2016 was about $3.9 billion, more than sufficient to cover capital expenditures and dividends.

Restructuring Costs

In 2016, we continued to undertake a wide range of actions across the enterprise to lower our cost structure in response to weak economic conditions. Restructuring costs of $395 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 were related to restructuring programs across the company. During 2016, we incurred $1.019 billion in restructuring costs, primarily related to Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation. In 2017, we expect restructuring actions to continue and anticipate costs of about $500 million.

Notes:

•Effective January 1, 2016, we made several changes that impacted the accounting for pension and other postemployment benefits. We also made changes to organizational accountabilities and internal reporting that impacted segment results. Our 2015 financial information has been recast to be consistent with the 2016 presentation.

•Glossary of terms included on pages 47 to 49; first occurrence of terms shown in bold italics.

•Information on non-GAAP financial measures is included on pages 62-63.

26
2016 COMPARED WITH 2015

CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between 2015 (at left) and 2016 (at right). Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees.

Total sales and revenues were $38.537 billion in 2016, compared with $47.011 billion in 2015, a decline of $8.474 billion, or 18 percent. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume attributable to continued weak commodity prices globally and economic weakness in many countries. While sales for both new equipment and aftermarket parts declined, most of the decrease was for new equipment. The unfavorable impact of price realization, primarily in Construction Industries, also contributed to the decline.

Sales volume was also unfavorably impacted by changes in dealer machine and engine inventories as inventories decreased about $1.6 billion in 2016 compared with a decrease of about $1.0 billion in 2015. The unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories was primarily in North America. Dealers are independent, and there could be many reasons for changes in their inventory levels, including their expectations of future demand and product delivery times. Dealers’ demand expectations take into account seasonal changes, macroeconomic conditions, machine rental rates and other factors. Delivery times can vary based on availability of product from Caterpillar factories and product distribution centers. We believe some of the expected dealer inventory reduction is a result of increased machine availability through our factories and product distribution centers. We do not expect dealers will reduce inventories in 2017 as much as they did in 2016. We believe the level of dealer inventories at the end of 2017 will depend on dealer expectations for business in 2018.

Sales declined in all regions. In North America, sales decreased 19 percent due to lower end-user demand primarily driven by Construction Industries and Energy & Transportation, and the unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories, primarily in Construction Industries. In EAME, sales declined 22 percent, primarily in Africa/Middle East due to weak economic conditions resulting from low oil and other commodity prices and an uncertain investment environment. Sales decreased 29 percent in Latin America, primarily due to widespread economic weakness across the region. The most significant decreases were in Mexico and Brazil. Asia/Pacific sales declined 9 percent, primarily due to lower end-user demand for Energy & Transportation applications and products used in mining, partially offset by an increase in demand for construction equipment mostly in China.

Energy & Transportation’s sales declined 22 percent, largely due to lower end-user demand for oil and gas and transportation applications. Construction Industries’ sales decreased 12 percent due to lower demand from end users, unfavorable price realization and the unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. Resource Industries’ sales declined 26 percent, mostly due to continued low end-user demand. Financial Products’ segment revenues were about flat.

27
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit between 2015 (at left) and 2016 (at right). Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. The bar entitled Other includes consolidating adjustments and Machinery, Energy & Transportation other operating (income) expenses.

Operating profit for 2016 was $498 million, compared with $3.785 billion in 2015. The decrease in profit is primarily due to lower sales volume, including an unfavorable mix of products. Our expectation is that sales mix will continue to be unfavorable in 2017. The decrease in profit also includes an unfavorable impact from mark-to-market losses related to remeasurement of our pension and OPEB plans and a goodwill impairment charge in Resource Industries. In addition, price realization, Financial Products and restructuring costs were unfavorable. These items were partially offset by favorable period costs and variable manufacturing costs.

The unfavorable price realization resulted from competitive market conditions, primarily in Construction Industries. We saw competitive pressure during 2016 that started in the last half of 2015 driven by excess industry capacity, unfavorable currency pressure as the impact of the strong dollar benefited competitors based outside the United States and an overall weak economic environment. While we do not expect substantial price improvement in the coming months, we do expect price realization to be neutral to slightly positive in 2017.

Period costs were lower, primarily due to the impact from substantial restructuring and cost reduction actions and lower short-term incentive compensation expense. The reductions primarily impacted period manufacturing costs and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A). Variable manufacturing costs were favorable primarily due to improved material costs and the favorable impact of cost absorption. Cost absorption was favorable due to inventory decreasing more significantly in 2015 compared to the decrease in 2016.

Restructuring costs of $1.019 billion in 2016 were related to multiple restructuring actions across the company, primarily in Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation. In 2015, restructuring costs were $898 million.

Short-term incentive compensation expense is directly related to financial and operational performance measured against targets set annually. Expense in 2016 was about $250 million as compared to about $585 million in 2015. For 2017, we expect short-term incentive compensation expense will be significantly higher than 2016.

Other Profit/Loss Items

•Other income/expense in 2016 was income of $146 million, compared with income of $161 million in 2015. The unfavorable change was primarily due to the absence of a gain of $120 million on the sale of the remaining 35 percent 

28
interest in our former third-party logistics business. This was mostly offset by a favorable net impact from currency translation and hedging gains and losses. Currency translation and hedging net losses in 2016 were significantly less than the net losses in 2015.

•The provision for income taxes for 2016 reflects an annual effective tax rate of 36.4 percent compared to 25.5 percent for 2015, excluding the items discussed in the paragraph below. The increase is primarily due to the negative impact from the portion of the Surface Mining & Technology goodwill impairment not deductible for tax purposes offsetting a favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective. The effective tax rate related to 2016 full-year adjusted profit before tax is 26 percent. 

The provision for income taxes for 2016 also includes a $141 million non-cash charge for increases in the valuation allowance for U.S. state deferred tax assets due to recent U.S. GAAP losses expected to recur in 2017 in certain state jurisdictions and the weight given this negative objective evidence under income tax accounting guidance. The provision for income taxes for 2015 also included a $42 million net charge to adjust prior years’ U.S. taxes.

Segment Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Construction Industries

Construction Industries’ sales were $15.612 billion in 2016, a decrease of $2.185 billion, or 12 percent, from 2015. The decrease in sales was primarily due to lower volume and unfavorable price realization. While sales declined for both new equipment and aftermarket parts, most of the decrease was for new equipment.

•The sales volume decline was primarily due to a decrease in deliveries to end users and the unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. Dealers lowered inventories more significantly in 2016 than in 2015.

•Price realization was unfavorable $539 million due to competitive market conditions resulting from excess industry capacity and an overall weak economic environment.

Sales decreased in North America, EAME and Latin America and were higher in Asia/Pacific.

•In North America, the sales decline was primarily due to lower end-user demand. The sales decline was also due to a decrease in dealer inventories in 2016 compared to relatively flat inventories in 2015. Unfavorable price realization resulted from competitive market conditions. The availability of used equipment has negatively impacted sales in North America during 2016 and we expect some negative impact in 2017.

•Lower sales in EAME were primarily due to lower end-user demand and the unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. In addition, price realization was unfavorable across the region due to competitive market conditions. Dealer inventories decreased in 2016 while inventories remained flat in 2015. We expect sales in Africa/Middle East to be negatively impacted 

30
in 2017 due to overall economic weakness and continued pressure on economies that rely on oil revenues to drive economic growth.

•In Latin America, end-user demand was down across most of the region, with the most significant decline in Brazil due to weak economic conditions. 

•Sales in Asia/Pacific were higher as a result of an increase in end-user demand primarily in China stemming from increased government support in infrastructure and residential investment. In addition, the impact of changes in dealer inventories was favorable as inventories increased slightly in 2016 compared to a decrease in inventories in 2015. 

Construction Industries’ profit was $1.650 billion in 2016, compared with $1.865 billion in 2015. The decrease in profit was primarily due to lower sales volume and unfavorable price realization resulting from competitive market conditions. The decline was partially offset by favorable costs, primarily due to the impact from restructuring and cost reduction actions, improved material costs, the favorable impact of cost absorption and the absence of an unfavorable impact from litigation in 2015. The impact of cost absorption was favorable as inventory decreased more significantly in 2015 than in 2016.

Resource Industries

Resource Industries’ sales were $5.726 billion in 2016, a decrease of $2.013 billion, or 26 percent, from 2015. The decline was almost entirely due to lower sales volume. Sales were lower for both new equipment and aftermarket parts, however, most of the decrease was for new equipment. Aftermarket parts sales have increased sequentially in each of the last three quarters.

The sales decrease was primarily due to lower end-user demand across all regions. While most commodity prices improved in the fourth quarter over a year earlier, current prices have not been sufficient to drive an increase in short-term demand for new equipment. We believe commodity prices must stabilize for a longer period of time to positively impact our sales. We believe idle mining trucks on customer sites are also having a negative impact on end-user demand. In 2016, mining customers continued to focus on improving productivity in existing mines and reducing their total capital expenditures, as they have for several years. We believe miners’ capital spending will be about flat in 2017 after several years of decline. However, we believe commodity prices at higher levels than a year ago, along with sequential improvements in part sales in each of the last three quarters of 2016 and improvements in quoting and order activity in the fourth quarter of 2016, reflect positive trends in Resource Industries that, if sustained, could positively impact future results.

Resource Industries incurred a loss of $1.047 billion in 2016, compared with profit of $1 million in 2015. The most significant item impacting 2016 was a goodwill impairment charge of $595 million related to the Surface Mining & Technology reporting unit. Excluding the impairment charge, the remaining unfavorable change was mostly due to lower sales volume and unfavorable price realization. These items were partially offset by lower costs due to the impact from restructuring and cost reduction actions, improved material costs and lower short-term incentive compensation expense.

Energy & Transportation

Energy & Transportation’s sales were $14.411 billion in 2016, a decrease of $4.108 billion, or 22 percent, from 2015. The decrease was almost entirely the result of lower sales volume. Sales decreased in all applications with oil and gas and transportation representing nearly 80 percent of the Energy & Transportation decline.

•Oil and Gas - Sales continued to decrease in all regions due to low oil prices. Although oil prices were low in 2015 and 2016, our sales during the first half of 2015 benefited from a strong order backlog. The sales decline was most significant in equipment used for production, drilling and well servicing.

•Transportation - Sales decreased in all geographic regions. The most significant decline was in North America, primarily due to significant weakness in the rail industry that we expect will persist in 2017. Rail remains challenged with low traffic volume and a significant number of idle locomotives. We believe our sales into the rail industry, including rail services and aftermarket, are being negatively impacted by idled fleets resulting from weak commodity prices. We expect the availability of our North American Tier 4 freight locomotive offering to positively impact sales in 2017. In Asia/Pacific, the decrease was due to the absence of a large sale of locomotives in 2015 and a decline in demand for equipment used in marine applications, primarily for work boats. Demand in Latin America and EAME were also negatively impacted by the weakness in the rail industry.

•Power Generation - Sales decreased in all regions, but primarily in EAME. The decline in EAME was primarily a result of continued weakness in the Middle East with continued low oil prices limiting investments. We expect low oil prices will continue to limit investments in oil-producing regions of Africa/Middle East in 2017. The declines in both North America and Asia/Pacific were primarily due to the absence of several large projects and weakness in power generation demand for oil and gas development. The decline in Latin America was primarily due to weak economic conditions.

31
•Industrial - Sales were lower in EAME, North America and Latin America and about flat in Asia Pacific. The decline in sales was primarily due to lower end-user demand for most industrial applications.

Energy & Transportation’s profit was $2.222 billion in 2016, compared with $3.390 billion in 2015. The decline was due to a decrease in sales volume, including an unfavorable mix of products. This was partially offset by lower costs primarily due to restructuring and cost reduction actions, favorable material costs and lower short-term incentive compensation expense.

Financial Products Segment

Financial Products’ revenues were $2.993 billion, a decrease of $85 million, or 3 percent, from 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower average earning assets in Asia/Pacific and Latin America, an unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment, primarily in North America and lower average financing rates in Latin America. These decreases were partially offset by higher average financing rates and higher average earning assets in North America.

Financial Products’ profit was $702 million in 2016, compared with $809 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment, an unfavorable impact from lower average earning assets, a decrease in net yield on average earning assets reflecting geographic mix changes and an increase in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a decrease in SG&A expenses. 

At the end of 2016, past dues at Cat Financial were 2.38 percent, compared with 2.14 percent at the end of 2015. The increase in past dues was primarily driven by the European marine portfolio. Write-offs, net of recoveries, were $123 million for the full-year 2016, compared with $155 million for the full-year 2015.

As of December 31, 2016, Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses totaled $343 million, or 1.29 percent of net finance receivables, compared with $338 million, or 1.22 percent of net finance receivables at year-end 2015.

Corporate Items and Eliminations

Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $2.712 billion in 2016, which was an increase of $766 million compared with 2015. Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; restructuring costs; timing differences, as some expenses are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences for ME&T, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates; cost of sales methodology differences as segments use a current cost methodology; and inter-segment eliminations.

The most significant item was the unfavorable impact of mark-to-market losses related to remeasurement of our pension and OPEB plans. Mark-to-market losses in 2016 were $985 million compared to mark-to-market losses of $179 million in 2015. The remaining decrease in expense of $40 million was primarily due to a favorable impact from methodology differences, partially offset by a $121 million increase in restructuring costs.

32
FOURTH QUARTER 2016 COMPARED WITH FOURTH QUARTER 2015 

CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between the fourth quarter of 2015 (at left) and the fourth quarter of 2016 (at right). Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees.

Total sales and revenues were $9.574 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, a decline of $1.456 billion, or 13 percent, compared with $11.030 billion in the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease was almost entirely due to lower sales volume, resulting from lower end-user demand attributable to continued weak commodity prices globally and economic weakness in many countries. Although some commodity prices improved in the fourth quarter of 2016, the improvement was too recent to significantly impact our sales for the quarter. Sales for new equipment declined, while aftermarket parts sales were about flat. The unfavorable impact of price realization also contributed to the decline. 

Sales declined in all regions except Asia/Pacific. In EAME, sales declined 30 percent primarily in Africa/Middle East due to weak economic conditions resulting from the continuing impact of low oil prices and an uncertain investment environment. In North America, sales decreased 15 percent primarily due to lower end-user demand for equipment used for infrastructure, the impact of continued low oil prices and an uncertain economic environment. Sales decreased 16 percent in Latin America primarily due to continued widespread economic weakness and inflation across the region. Asia/Pacific sales increased 10 percent primarily due to increased infrastructure and residential investment in China. 

Energy & Transportation’s sales declined 15 percent largely due to lower end-user demand for most applications. Resource Industries’ sales declined 23 percent mostly due to continued low end-user demand. Construction Industries’ sales decreased 8 percent primarily due to lower demand from end users, partially offset by favorable changes in dealer inventories. Financial Products’ segment revenues were about flat with the fourth quarter of 2015.

33
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT / (LOSS)

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit (Loss) between the fourth quarter of 2015 (at left) and the fourth quarter of 2016 (at right). Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. The bar entitled Other includes consolidating adjustments and Machinery, Energy & Transportation other operating (income) expenses.

Operating loss for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $1.262 billion, compared with a loss of $175 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, an unfavorable change of $1.087 billion. The most significant items were the unfavorable impact from mark-to-market losses related to pension and OPEB plans and a goodwill impairment charge in Resource Industries. Excluding these items, operating profit improved $279 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. The improvement was mostly due to lower period costs, a decrease in restructuring costs and favorable variable manufacturing costs, partially offset by lower sales volume. The unfavorable price realization resulted from competitive market conditions, primarily in Resource Industries.

Period costs were lower primarily due to substantial restructuring and cost reduction actions over the past year. The reductions impacted period manufacturing costs, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses about equally. Variable manufacturing costs were favorable mostly due to the impact of cost absorption as inventory decreased more significantly in the fourth quarter of 2015, compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. 

Restructuring costs of $395 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 were related to restructuring programs across the company. In the fourth quarter of 2015, restructuring costs were $679 million, primarily related to a reduction in workforce.

Other Profit/Loss Items 

▪Other income/expense in the fourth quarter of 2016 was income of $34 million, compared with income of $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The unfavorable change was primarily due to lower gains from the sales of securities in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, and the impact from currency translation and hedging gains and losses. The unfavorable change in currency translation and hedging gains and losses was due to higher net losses in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to the fourth quarter of 2015.

▪The provision for income taxes in the fourth quarter reflects an annual effective tax rate of 36.4 percent compared to 25.5 percent for the full-year 2015, excluding the items discussed below. The effective tax rate related to 2016 full-year adjusted profit before tax is 26 percent. 

The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2016 also includes a $170 million charge related to the change from the third-quarter estimated annual tax rate of 25 percent. The increase is primarily due to the negative impact from the portion of the Surface Mining & Technology goodwill impairment not deductible for tax purposes offsetting benefits related to the majority of pension and OPEB mark-to-market losses taxed at higher U.S. rates. In addition, the provision for income taxes for 2016 also includes a $141 million non-cash charge for increases in the valuation allowance for U.S. state deferred tax 

34
assets due to recent U.S. GAAP losses expected to recur in 2017 in certain state jurisdictions and the weight given this negative objective evidence under income tax accounting guidance. The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2015 also included a benefit of $92 million related to the decrease from the third-quarter estimated annual tax rate, primarily due to the renewal in the fourth quarter of the U.S. research and development tax credit for 2015. 

Segment Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Construction Industries

Construction Industries’ sales were $3.589 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $316 million, or 8 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease was mostly due to lower volume. Sales declined for new equipment and were about flat for aftermarket parts.

▪Sales volume declined primarily due to lower end-user demand, partially offset by a smaller decline in dealer inventories in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with the fourth quarter of 2015.

Sales decreased in EAME, North America and Latin America and increased in Asia/Pacific.

▪Sales in EAME decreased primarily due to lower end-user demand. The sales decline was primarily in oil-producing economies in Africa/Middle East due to continued low oil prices and an uncertain investment environment.

▪In North America, the sales decline was primarily due to lower end-user demand. Although residential and non-residential building construction activity improved, we believe demand for new construction equipment has remained low due to end users’ utilization of existing used equipment. 

▪In Latin America, sales decreased slightly as lower end-user demand, attributable to weak economic conditions across the region, was partially offset by favorable changes in dealer inventories. Dealers reduced inventories more significantly in the fourth quarter of 2015 than in the fourth quarter of 2016.

▪Sales in Asia/Pacific were higher as a result of an increase in end-user demand primarily in China stemming from increased government support for infrastructure and residential investment. In addition, changes in Asia/Pacific dealer inventories were 

36
favorable as dealers increased inventories in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with a decrease in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Construction Industries’ profit was $334 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with $178 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The increase in profit was primarily due to lower period costs and the absence of an unfavorable impact from litigation in the fourth quarter of 2015, partially offset by lower sales volume, which includes a favorable mix of products. The lower period costs were mostly a result of the favorable impact of restructuring and cost reduction actions.

Resource Industries

Resource Industries’ sales were $1.443 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $435 million, or 23 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of price realization resulting from competitive market conditions. Sales of new equipment decreased while sales of aftermarket parts increased slightly. Aftermarket parts sales have increased sequentially in each of the last three quarters.

The sales decrease was primarily due to lower end-user demand across all regions. While most commodity prices were higher in the fourth quarter of 2016 than in the fourth quarter of 2015, current prices have not been sufficient to drive much increase in short-term demand for new equipment. We believe commodity prices now need to stabilize for a longer period of time to positively impact our sales. Mining customers continued to focus on improving productivity in existing mines and reducing their total capital expenditures, as they have for several years. In addition, sales of heavy construction equipment are lower, primarily in North America.

Resource Industries incurred a loss of $711 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with a loss of $80 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The most significant item impacting the fourth quarter of 2016 was a goodwill impairment charge of $595 million related to the Surface Mining & Technology reporting unit. Excluding the impairment charge, the fourth quarter of 2016 operating loss was unfavorable $36 million, compared with the fourth quarter of 2015. The unfavorable change was due to lower sales volume and unfavorable price realization, mostly offset by the favorable impact of restructuring and cost reduction actions.

Energy & Transportation

Energy & Transportation’s sales were $3.849 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $695 million, or 15 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales volume. 

▪Transportation - Sales decreased in North America, Asia/Pacific and EAME primarily due to continued weakness in the rail industry, with the most significant decline in North America. The North American rail industry continues to be depressed with a significant number of idle locomotives that impacted demand for rail services and aftermarket. The decline in Asia/Pacific was mostly due to lower demand for equipment used in marine applications, primarily for work boats. Sales in Latin America were about flat.

▪Oil and Gas - Sales decreased in much of the world due to the impact from low oil prices. The sales decline was primarily related to lower demand across all regions for equipment used for production, partially offset by increased demand for turbines used for gas compression.

▪Power Generation - Sales decreased in EAME and were about flat in all other regions. The decline in EAME was primarily a result of continued weakness in the Middle East with continued low oil prices limiting investments.

▪Industrial - Sales were about flat as an increase in Asia/Pacific was mostly offset by a decrease in EAME, both attributable to changes in end-user demand for most industrial applications. 

Energy & Transportation’s profit was $638 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with $741 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The decline was primarily due to a decrease in sales volume, partially offset by the impact of restructuring and cost reduction actions and a favorable impact of cost absorption as inventory decreased more significantly in the fourth quarter of 2015 than the fourth quarter of 2016.

Financial Products Segment

Financial Products’ revenues were $742 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $4 million, or 1 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower average earning assets in North America and Latin America, an unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment primarily in North America and lower average financing rates in Latin America. These decreases were partially offset by higher average financing rates in North America.

37
Financial Products’ profit was $149 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with $191 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower gains on sales of securities at Insurance Services and an unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment.

Corporate Items and Eliminations

Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $1.581 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, an increase of $478 million from the fourth quarter of 2015. Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; restructuring costs; timing differences, as some expenses are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences for ME&T, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates; cost of sales methodology differences as segments use a current cost methodology; and inter-segment eliminations. 

The increase was due to the unfavorable impact of higher mark-to-market losses related to our pension and OPEB plans. Mark-to-market losses in the fourth quarter of 2016 were $985 million, compared to mark-to-market losses of $214 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. This was partially offset by a decrease in restructuring costs of $284 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2015.

38
2015 COMPARED WITH 2014 

CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between 2014 (at left) and 2015 (at right). Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees.

Total sales and revenues were $47.011 billion in 2015, down $8.173 billion, or 15 percent, from 2014. The decrease was largely due to lower sales volume, primarily in Energy & Transportation and Construction Industries. Sales volume was also lower in Resource Industries. Currency had an unfavorable impact of $1.7 billion due to continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most currencies, with the largest impact from the euro. While sales for both new equipment and aftermarket parts declined in Energy & Transportation, Construction Industries and Resource Industries, most of the decrease was for new equipment. Financial Products’ revenues declined $178 million.

While price realization was about flat from 2014 to 2015, it was positive in the first half of 2015 and negative over the second half of 2015.

The two most significant reasons for the decline in sales and revenues from 2014 were weakening economic growth and substantially lower commodity prices. The impact of weak economic growth was most pronounced in developing countries, such as China and Brazil. Lower oil prices had a substantial negative impact on the portion of Energy & Transportation that supports oil drilling and well servicing, where new order rates in 2015 were down close to 90 percent from 2014.

The impact of changes in dealer machine and engine inventories was about flat. In total, dealer inventories decreased about $1 billion in both 2015 and 2014. Dealers are independent, and there could be many reasons for changes in their inventory levels. In general, dealers adjust inventory based on their expectations of future demand and product delivery times. Dealers’ demand expectations take into account seasonal changes, macroeconomic conditions and other factors. Delivery times can vary based on availability of product from Caterpillar factories and product distribution centers.

Sales declined in all regions. Sales in North America declined 11 percent, primarily in Energy & Transportation with the most significant decrease in rail applications. Sales also declined in Resource Industries and Construction Industries. In Asia/Pacific, sales declined 19 percent, primarily due to lower end-user demand for construction and mining equipment and oil and gas applications. The impact of currency was also unfavorable, as our sales in Japanese yen and Australian dollars translated into fewer U.S. dollars. In EAME, sales declined 14 percent, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of currency, as our sales in euros translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The remaining sales decline is primarily due to lower sales in Russia as a recession slowed demand and the absence of a large power generation project that occurred in 2014. Latin America sales decreased 28 percent due 

39
to lower end-user demand, mostly for construction equipment. The decline was due to continued widespread economic weakness across the region with the most significant decline in Brazil due to continued weak construction activity resulting from depressed economic conditions.

By segment, sales decreased in Energy & Transportation, Construction Industries and Resource Industries. Energy & Transportation’s sales declined 17 percent with much of the decline a result of low oil prices. Construction Industries’ sales declined 14 percent, primarily due to lower end-user demand and the unfavorable impact of currency. Resource Industries’ sales declined 15 percent, primarily due to weaker demand for mining products, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories, as dealer inventories decreased more in 2014 than in 2015. Financial Products' segment revenues decreased 7 percent, primarily due to lower average earning assets and lower average financing rates.

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit between 2014 (at left) and 2015 (at right). Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. The bar entitled Other includes consolidating adjustments and Machinery, Energy & Transportation other operating (income) expenses.

Operating profit for 2015 was $3.785 billion, an increase of $471 million from 2014. The most significant item was the favorable impact of lower net mark-to-market losses related to our pension and OPEB plans. Remaining was a decline of $1.974 billion which was primarily the result of lower sales volume, higher restructuring costs and higher variable manufacturing costs, partially offset by lower period costs and the favorable impact of currency.

Restructuring costs of $898 million in 2015, included in corporate items, were primarily related to a reduction in workforce across the company. In 2014, restructuring costs were $432 million, primarily related to a workforce reduction at the Gosselies, Belgium, facility and other actions across the company. Our restructuring activities continued in 2015 as part of our efforts to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations.

Variable manufacturing costs were higher primarily due to the unfavorable impact of cost absorption as there was a more significant inventory decline in 2015 than 2014, and manufacturing inefficiencies driven by costs decreasing at a lower rate than production volume. These costs were partially offset by improved material costs due to declines in commodity prices and a focus on reducing the cost of components in our products.

Period costs were lower primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense, slightly offset by higher spending for new product introductions. 

40
The favorable impact of currency was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Japanese yen and British pound, as we are a net exporter from Japan and the United Kingdom.

Short-term incentive compensation expense related to 2015 was about $585 million compared to about $1.3 billion of short-term incentive compensation expense related to 2014. Short-term incentive compensation expense is directly related to financial and operational performance measured against targets set annually.

Other Profit/Loss Items

Other income/expense was income of $161 million in 2015, compared with income of $322 million in 2014. The change was primarily due to the unfavorable net impact of currency translation and hedging gains and losses, partially offset by a gain of $120 million on the sale of the remaining 35 percent interest in our former third party logistics business. Translation and hedging losses in 2015 totaled $173 million primarily due to the Brazilian real and Japanese yen. In 2014, translation and hedging gains were $137 million primarily due to the euro.

The provision for income taxes for 2015 reflects an effective tax rate of 25.5 percent compared with 23.4 percent for 2014, excluding the items discussed below. The increase is primarily due to a less favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective in 2015 as lower mark-to-market losses related to our pension and OPEB plans were partially offset by higher restructuring costs, both primarily at higher U.S. tax rates.

The provision for income taxes for 2015 also includes a $42 million net charge to increase unrecognized tax benefits by $68 million partially offset by a benefit of $26 million to record U.S. refund claims related to prior tax years currently under examination. Our consideration of decisions by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in 2015 involving other taxpayers caused us to increase our unrecognized tax benefits related to foreign tax credits that arose as a result of certain financings.

The 2014 tax provision also included a benefit of $23 million for the release of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets of a non-U.S. subsidiary and a net benefit of $21 million to adjust prior years’ U.S. taxes and interest.

41
Segment Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Construction Industries

Construction Industries’ sales were $17.797 billion in 2015, a decrease of $2.793 billion, or 14 percent, from 2014. The sales decrease was due to lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency. While sales for both new equipment and aftermarket parts declined, most of the decrease was for new equipment.

•The decrease in sales volume was primarily due to lower deliveries to end users caused by widespread economic weakness primarily in developing countries.

•The unfavorable currency impact was primarily from a weaker euro, Japanese yen and Brazilian real, as sales in these currencies translated into fewer U.S. dollars. 

Sales decreased in all geographic regions.

•In Asia/Pacific, the sales decline was primarily due to lower sales in China and Japan. In China, the lower sales resulted primarily from continued weak residential and nonresidential construction activity. Sales in Japan declined due to a weaker Japanese yen, as sales in yen translated into fewer U.S. dollars. 

•Decreases in Latin America were primarily related to lower demand due to continued weak construction activity with the most significant impact in Brazil. In addition, the absence of a large government order that occurred in 2014 and the unfavorable impact of a weaker Brazilian real contributed to the decline in sales in Brazil.

43
•Sales declined in EAME primarily due to the unfavorable impact of currency, as sales in euros translated into fewer U.S. dollars. 

•In North America, the sales decline was due to both lower end-user demand and unfavorable changes in dealer inventory, as dealer inventories remained relatively flat in 2015 compared to an increase in 2014. Lack of investment in oil and gas-related construction activity and a decline in infrastructure spending were partially offset by stronger activity in residential and nonresidential building construction. We believe declines in construction activity related to oil and gas resulted in availability of existing construction equipment for other purposes.

Construction Industries’ profit was $1.865 billion in 2015, compared with $2.133 billion in 2014. The decrease in profit was primarily due to lower sales volume, partially offset by lower costs, and the favorable impact of currency. The decline in costs was primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense and improved material costs. 

Resource Industries

Resource Industries’ sales were $7.739 billion in 2015, a decrease of $1.395 billion, or 15 percent, from 2014, primarily due to lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency, mostly the euro and Australian dollar. Price realization was slightly unfavorable, resulting from a competitive pricing environment. Sales declined for both new equipment and aftermarket parts. We believe some mining companies were curtailing maintenance and rebuild activities.

Commodity prices were weak, and mining customers focused on improving productivity in existing mines and reducing their total capital expenditures as they did for the last several years. As a result, sales and new orders in Resource Industries weakened.

The sales volume decrease was partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. As dealers reduced inventories in 2015, the reductions were less significant than in 2014.

Sales decreased in all geographic regions.

•In EAME, the sales decline was primarily due to lower end-user demand and the unfavorable impact of currency due to a weaker euro, as sales in euro translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The decline was partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. As dealers reduced inventories in 2015, the reductions were less significant than in 2014.

•In North America, the sales decline was primarily due to lower end-user demand driven by lower sales of mining equipment partially offset by increases in sales of equipment used to support the quarry and aggregate industry and the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. As dealers reduced inventories in 2015, the reductions were less significant than in 2014.

•Sales declined in Asia/Pacific primarily due to lower end-user demand and the unfavorable impact of currency, mostly due to the Australian dollar, as sales translated into fewer U.S. dollars, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. As dealers reduced inventories in 2015, the reductions were less significant than in 2014.

•Decreases in Latin America were primarily related to continued weak mining activity and slightly unfavorable price realization resulting from a competitive pricing environment. The decline was partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in dealer inventories. As dealers reduced inventories in 2015, the reductions were less significant than in 2014.

Resource Industries’ profit was $1 million in 2015, compared with profit of $565 million in 2014. The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales volume, higher spending for new product introductions and unfavorable price realization, partially offset by improved material costs.

Energy & Transportation

Energy & Transportation’s sales were $18.519 billion in 2015, a decrease of $3.787 billion, or 17 percent, from 2014. The sales decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency, mainly from a weaker euro. Sales decreased in all geographic regions and across all applications.

•Oil and Gas - The sales decrease was driven by lower end-user demand as oil prices continued to decline. Sales decreased in all regions. In North America, sales were lower primarily due to a decline in end-user demand for reciprocating engines used in drilling, well servicing and gas compression applications. Sales declined in Asia/Pacific primarily from lower end-user demand for equipment used in drilling applications and the unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories as inventories decreased in 2015 and were about flat in 2014. In Latin America, sales were lower primarily due to the absence of a large project that occurred in 2014. Sales declined in EAME due to depressed oil prices and the unfavorable impact of currency, primarily from a weaker euro.

44
During the first half of 2015, sales remained at relatively high levels for equipment used in gas compression, well servicing and drilling because we started the year with a substantial order backlog. Sales declined during the second half of 2015 as orders from the backlog were shipped and new order levels were weak.

•Transportation - Sales decreased in North America and were about flat in all other geographic regions. In North America, sales into rail applications decreased primarily due to the absence of a Tier IV locomotive offering and lower sales of recyclable materials. The decline of recyclable materials was driven primarily by the year-over-year decrease in scrap prices and the lower volume of railcars available to scrap.

•Power Generation - Sales decreased in EAME and North America and were about flat in all other regions. In EAME, the sales decline was primarily due to lower end-user demand resulting from the absence of a large project that occurred in 2014, weak economic conditions and political instability in the region, and the negative impact of currency. Sales declined in North America mostly due to the absence of several large projects and unfavorable impact of changes in dealer inventories as inventories decreased in 2015 and were about flat in 2014.

•Industrial - Sales decreased in all regions except Latin America which was about flat. In EAME, sales decreased primarily due to lower end-user demand for engines used by original equipment manufacturers for agriculture and construction applications and the unfavorable impact of currency. In both Asia/Pacific and North America, lower demand for most industrial applications contributed to the sales decrease.

Energy & Transportation’s profit was $3.390 billion in 2015, compared with $4.287 billion in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume, which includes a favorable mix of products, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense.

Variable manufacturing costs were about flat as improved material costs were about offset by the unfavorable impact of cost absorption and manufacturing inefficiencies driven by costs decreasing at a lower rate than production volume. The unfavorable impact of cost absorption resulted from a significant decrease in inventory in 2015, compared to an increase in inventory in 2014.

Period costs were favorable as lower incentive compensation expense was slightly offset by increases in program spending including for new product introductions.

Financial Products Segment

Financial Products’ revenues were $3.078 billion, a decrease of $235 million, or 7 percent, from 2014. The decline was primarily due to lower average earning assets and lower average financing rates. Average earning assets were down in Asia/Pacific, Latin America and EAME, partially offset by higher average earning assets in North America. Average financing rates decreased primarily in North America and EAME.

Financial Products’ profit was $809 million in 2015, compared with $901 million in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a $68 million decrease in net yield on average earning assets reflecting changes in the geographic mix of margin and currency impacts and a $55 million unfavorable impact from lower average earning assets, partially offset by a $33 million decrease in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial. The decrease in provision for credit losses at Cat Financial was primarily due to a favorable impact from changes in the allowance rate and a favorable impact from changes in portfolio balances, partially offset by an increase in write-offs, net of recoveries. The favorable impact from changes in the allowance rate was driven by changes in certain assumptions within the allowance for credit loss model. During 2015, as a result of management's review, the loss emergence period and loss given default assumptions were updated and resulted in a decrease to the allowance for credit losses of $66 million.

At the end of 2015, past dues at Cat Financial were 2.14 percent, compared with 2.17 percent at the end of 2014. Write-offs, net of recoveries, were $155 million for the full-year 2015, compared with $104 million for the full-year 2014. The increase in write-offs, net of recoveries, was primarily driven by the mining and marine portfolios.

As of December 31, 2015, Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses totaled $338 million, or 1.22 percent of net finance receivables, compared with $401 million, or 1.36 percent of net finance receivables, at year-end 2014.

Corporate Items and Eliminations

Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $1.946 billion in 2015, a decrease of $2.367 billion from 2014. Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; restructuring costs; timing differences, as some expenses are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences for ME&T, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates, and inter-segment eliminations.

The most significant item was the favorable impact of net mark-to-market losses related to our pension and OPEB plans. Net mark-to-market losses in 2015 were $179 million compared to net mark-to-market losses of $2.624 billion in 2014. The remaining increase in expense in 2015 was primarily due to a $466 million increase in restructuring costs and an unfavorable impact from 

45
methodology differences, partially offset by a favorable impact from timing differences and lower retirement benefits costs (excluding mark-to-market losses).

RESTRUCTURING COSTS

Restructuring costs for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The restructuring costs in 2016 were primarily related to actions in Resource Industries in response to continued weakness in the mining industry. In addition, costs resulted from our decision to discontinue production of on-highway vocational trucks and other restructuring actions across the company, most of which were related to our September 2015 announcement regarding significant restructuring and cost reduction actions to lower our operating costs in response to weak economic and business conditions in most of the industries we serve. The restructuring costs in 2015 were primarily related to several restructuring programs across the company. The restructuring costs in 2014 were primarily related to a reduction in workforce at our Gosselies, Belgium, facility. 

Restructuring costs are a reconciling item between Segment profit and Consolidated profit before taxes.

The following table summarizes the 2015 and 2016 employee separation activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As part of our September 2015 announcement, we offered a voluntary retirement enhancement program to qualifying U.S. employees and various voluntary separation programs outside of the U.S. and implemented additional involuntary separation programs throughout the company. In 2016 and 2015, we incurred $100 million and $379 million of employee separation costs related to these programs, respectively. In addition, in 2015 we incurred $82 million of defined benefit retirement plan curtailment losses related to these programs. Substantially all of the employee separation costs related to this program were paid in 2016. We also incurred costs associated with the September 2015 announcement related to manufacturing facility consolidations and closures in 2016 and 2015 totaling $181 million and $108 million, respectively. The remaining liability balance as of December 31, 2016 represents costs for other employee separation programs, most of which are expected to be paid in 2017.

In February 2016, we made the decision to discontinue production of on-highway vocational trucks within Energy & Transportation. Based on the business climate in the truck industry and a thorough evaluation of the business, the company decided it would withdraw from this market. We estimate restructuring costs incurred under the restructuring plan to be $110 million. In 2016, we recognized $104 million of restructuring costs primarily for long-lived asset impairments and sales discounts related to this restructuring plan. The remaining costs are expected to be recognized in 2017.

46
In the second half of 2016, we took additional restructuring actions in Resource Industries, including ending the production of track drills; pursuing strategic alternatives, including the possible divestiture of room and pillar products; consolidation of two product development divisions; and additional actions in response to ongoing weakness in the mining industry. We estimate restructuring costs incurred under these restructuring plans to be $385 million. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we incurred $369 million of restructuring costs related to these plans which included $164 million of long-lived asset impairments, $120 million of employee separation costs, $81 million of inventory write-downs and $4 million of other costs. The remaining costs are expected to be recognized in 2017.

In 2017, we expect to incur about $500 million of restructuring costs primarily related to ongoing manufacturing facility consolidations to lower our cost structure in response to weak economic conditions. No estimate of potential restructuring costs for contemplated actions at Gosselies, Belgium, or Aurora, Illinois, has been included. We are expecting about $450 million of cost reduction in 2017 from lower operating costs, primarily SG&A expenses and Cost of goods sold resulting from restructuring actions.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

1.All Other Segments - Primarily includes activities such as: the business strategy, product management and development, and manufacturing of filters and fluids, undercarriage, tires and rims, ground engaging tools, fluid transfer products, precision seals and rubber, and sealing and connecting components primarily for Cat® products; parts distribution; distribution services responsible for dealer development and administration including a wholly owned dealer in Japan, dealer portfolio management and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of machines, engines and parts; digital investments for new customer and dealer solutions that integrate data analytics with state-of-the art digital technologies while transforming the buying experience. 

2.Consolidating Adjustments - Elimination of transactions between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

3.Construction Industries - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure, forestry and building construction applications. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes backhoe loaders, small wheel loaders, small track-type tractors, skid steer loaders, multi-terrain loaders, mini excavators, compact wheel loaders, telehandlers, select work tools, small, medium and large track excavators, wheel excavators, medium wheel loaders, compact track loaders, medium track-type tractors, track-type loaders, motor graders, pipelayers, forestry and paving products and related parts.

4.Currency - With respect to sales and revenues, currency represents the translation impact on sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. With respect to operating profit, currency represents the net translation impact on sales and operating costs resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. Currency includes the impact on sales and operating profit for the Machinery, Energy & Transportation lines of business only; currency impacts on Financial Products’ revenues and operating profit are included in the Financial Products’ portions of the respective analyses. With respect to other income/expense, currency represents the effects of forward and option contracts entered into by the company to reduce the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates (hedging) and the net effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our foreign currency assets and liabilities for consolidated results (translation).

5.EAME - A geographic region including Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).

6.Earning Assets - Assets consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income, plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat Financial.

7.Energy & Transportation - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines, diesel-electric locomotives and related parts across industries serving power generation, industrial, oil and gas and transportation applications, including marine and rail-related businesses. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support of turbines and turbine-related services, reciprocating engine powered generator sets, integrated systems used in the electric power generation industry, reciprocating engines and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and oil and gas industries; reciprocating engines supplied to the industrial industry as well as Cat machinery; the remanufacturing of Cat engines and components and remanufacturing services for other companies; the business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, remanufacturing, leasing and service of diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-related products and services and product support of on-highway vocational trucks for North America.

47
8.Financial Products Segment - Provides financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Cat and other equipment, as well as some financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers. Financing plans include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The segment also provides various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and lease of our equipment. Financial Products segment profit is determined on a pretax basis and includes other income/expense items.

9.Latin America - A geographic region including Central and South American countries and Mexico.

10.Machinery, Energy & Transportation (ME&T) - Represents the aggregate total of Construction Industries, Resource Industries, Energy & Transportation and All Other Segments and related corporate items and eliminations.

11.Machinery, Energy & Transportation Other Operating (Income) Expenses - Comprised primarily of gains/losses on disposal of long-lived assets, gains/losses on divestitures and legal settlements and accruals. Restructuring costs classified as other operating expenses on the Results of Operations are presented separately on the Operating Profit Comparison.

12.Mark-to-Market (MTM) gains and losses - For our defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, represents the net gain or loss of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions. These gains and losses are immediately recognized through earnings upon the annual remeasurement in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis as triggering events warrant remeasurement.

13.Pension and other postemployment benefits (OPEB) - The company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans.

14.Period Costs - Includes period manufacturing costs, ME&T selling, general and administrative (SG&A) and research and development (R&D) expenses excluding the impact of currency, exit-related costs that are included in restructuring costs (see definition below) and mark-to-market gains or losses (see definition above). Period manufacturing costs support production but are defined as generally not having a direct relationship to short-term changes in volume. Examples include machinery and equipment repair, depreciation on manufacturing assets, facility support, procurement, factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations management. SG&A and R&D costs are not linked to the production of goods or services and include marketing, legal and financial services and the development of new and significant improvements in products or processes.

15.Price Realization - The impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product introductions. Price realization includes geographic mix of sales, which is the impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales prices between geographic regions.

16.Resource Industries - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining, quarry, waste, and material handling applications. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes large track-type tractors, large mining trucks, hard rock vehicles, longwall miners, electric rope shovels, draglines, hydraulic shovels, track and rotary drills, highwall miners, large wheel loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, wheel tractor scrapers, wheel dozers, landfill compactors, soil compactors, material handlers, continuous miners, scoops and haulers, hardrock continuous mining systems, select work tools, machinery components, electronics and control systems and related parts. In addition to equipment, Resource Industries also develops and sells technology products and services to provide customers fleet management, equipment management analytics and autonomous machine capabilities. Resource Industries also manages areas that provide services to other parts of the company, including integrated manufacturing and research and development.

17.Restructuring Costs - Primarily costs for employee separation costs, long-lived asset impairments and contract terminations. These costs are included in Other Operating (Income) Expenses. Restructuring costs also include other exit-related costs primarily for inventory write-downs, accelerated depreciation and equipment relocation (primarily included in Cost of goods sold) and sales discounts and payments to dealers and customers related to discontinued products (included in Sales of ME&T).

18.Sales Volume - With respect to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the quantities sold for Machinery, Energy & Transportation as well as the incremental revenue impact of new product introductions, including emissions-related product updates. With respect to operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the quantities sold for Machinery, Energy & Transportation combined with product mix as well as the net operating profit impact of new product introductions, including emissions-related product updates. Product mix represents the net operating profit impact of changes in the relative weighting of Machinery, Energy & Transportation sales with respect to total sales.

48
19.Surface Mining & Technology - A goodwill reporting unit included in Resource Industries. Its product portfolio includes large mining trucks, electric rope shovels, draglines, hydraulic shovels and related parts. In addition to equipment, Surface Mining & Technology also develops and sells technology products and services to provide customer fleet management, equipment management analytics and autonomous machine capabilities. 

20.Variable Manufacturing Costs - Represents volume-adjusted costs excluding the impact of currency and restructuring costs (see definition above). Variable manufacturing costs are defined as having a direct relationship with the volume of production. This includes material costs, direct labor and other costs that vary directly with production volume such as freight, power to operate machines and supplies that are consumed in the manufacturing process.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources of funds

We generate significant capital resources from operating activities, which are the primary source of funding for our ME&T operations. Funding for these businesses is also available from commercial paper and long-term debt issuances. Financial Products' operations are funded primarily from commercial paper, term debt issuances and collections from its existing portfolio. Despite continued weakness in many of the industries we serve, we had positive operating cash flow in 2016. On a consolidated basis, we ended 2016 with $7.17 billion of cash, an increase of $708 million from year-end 2015. We intend to maintain a strong cash and liquidity position. 

Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world with approximately $5.2 billion held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Amounts held by non-U.S. subsidiaries are available for general corporate use. However, if cash held by non-U.S. subsidiaries were repatriated to the United States, U.S. tax would generally be payable net of any available foreign tax credits.

Consolidated operating cash flow for 2016 was $5.61 billion down from $6.68 billion in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower profit after adjustments for non-cash items. The most significant driver of lower earnings was a decrease in sales volume during 2016. Higher payments for employee separations in 2016 than 2015 also contributed to the decline in operating cash flow. Operating cash flow benefited from lower cash payments for short-term incentive compensation in 2016 than 2015 (a portion of this benefit was reflected in profit through lower accruals for incentive compensation expense in 2016). In addition, positive changes to working capital in 2016 favorably impacted operating cash flow. Within working capital, changes to accounts payable and customer advances had favorable impacts to cash flow but were partially offset by lower inventory reductions. These reductions in working capital were also primarily a result of lower sales volume. See further discussion of operating cash flow under ME&T and Financial Products.

Total debt as of December 31, 2016, was $36.78 billion, a decrease of $1.23 billion from year-end 2015. Debt related to Financial Products decreased $896 million, reflecting decreasing portfolio funding requirements. Debt related to ME&T decreased $334 million in 2016, due to the maturity of a long-term debt issuance.

We have three global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $10.50 billion (Credit Facility) available in the aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial for general liquidity purposes. Based on management's allocation decision, which can be revised from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility available to ME&T as of December 31, 2016 was $2.75 billion. Our three Global Credit Facilities are:

•The 364-day facility of $3.15 billion (of which $0.82 billion is available to ME&T) expires in September 2017.

•The three-year facility, as amended in September 2016, of $2.73 billion (of which $0.72 billion is available to ME&T) expires in September 2019.

•The five-year facility, as amended in September 2016, of $4.62 billion (of which $1.21 billion is available to ME&T) expires in September 2021.

At December 31, 2016, Caterpillar's consolidated net worth was $13.20 billion, which was above the $9.00 billion required under the Credit Facility. The consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated stockholder's equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other postretirement benefits balance within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

At December 31, 2016, Cat Financial's covenant interest coverage ratio was 1.92 to 1. This is above the 1.15 to 1 minimum ratio, calculated as (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to (2) interest expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended, required by the Credit Facility.

49
In addition, at December 31, 2016, Cat Financial's six-month covenant leverage ratio was 7.35 to 1 and year-end covenant leverage ratio was 7.60 to 1. This is below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10 to 1, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31, required by the Credit Facility.

In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit Facility in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the syndicate of banks may terminate the commitments allocated to the party that does not meet its covenants. Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat Financial's other lenders under other loan agreements where similar financial covenants or cross default provisions are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue remedies under those loan agreements, including accelerating the repayment of outstanding borrowings. At December 31, 2016, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility.

Our total credit commitments and available credit as of December 31, 2016 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The other consolidated credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2016 totaled $3.82 billion. These committed and uncommitted credit lines, which may be eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries for local funding requirements. Caterpillar or Cat Financial may guarantee subsidiary borrowings under these lines.

We receive debt ratings from the major rating agencies. In December 2016, Moody's Investors Service downgraded our long-term ratings to A3 from A2, and short-term ratings to Prime-2 from Prime-1. We do not expect the Moody's downgrade to have a material impact on our borrowing costs or our overall financial health. A further downgrade of our credit ratings by Moody's or one of the other major credit rating agencies would result in increased borrowing costs and could make access to certain credit markets more difficult. In the event economic conditions deteriorate such that access to debt markets becomes unavailable, our ME&T operations would rely on cash flow from operations, use of existing cash balances, borrowings from Cat Financial and access to our Credit Facility. Our Financial Products operations would rely on cash flow from its existing portfolio, existing cash balances, access to our Credit Facility and other credit line facilities of Cat Financial and potential borrowings from Caterpillar. In addition, we maintain a support agreement with Cat Financial, which requires Caterpillar to remain the sole owner of Cat Financial and may, under certain circumstances, require Caterpillar to make payments to Cat Financial should Cat Financial fail to maintain certain financial ratios.

Machinery, Energy & Transportation

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.86 billion in 2016, compared with $5.18 billion in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower profit after adjustments for non-cash items. The most significant driver of lower earnings was a decrease in sales volume during 2016. Higher payments for employee separations in 2016 than 2015 also contributed to the decline in operating cash flow. Operating cash flow benefited from lower cash payments for short-term incentive compensation in 2016 than 2015 (a portion of this benefit was reflected in profit through lower accruals for incentive compensation expense in 2016). In addition, positive changes to working capital in 2016 favorably impacted operating cash flow. Within working capital, changes to accounts payable and customer advances had favorable impacts to cash flow but were partially offset by lower inventory reductions. These reductions in working capital were also primarily a result of lower sales volume.

Net cash used for investing activities in both 2016 and 2015 was $1.78 billion. Increased lending activity with Financial Products in 2016 was offset by lower capital expenditures versus 2015.

50
Net cash used for financing activities in 2016 was $2.13 billion, compared with net cash used of $4.24 billion in 2015. The favorable change was primarily due to the absence of common stock repurchases in 2016, as compared to 2015.

Although our short-term priorities for the use of cash may vary from time to time, as business conditions dictate, our long-term cash deployment strategy remains unchanged: to maintain a strong financial position in support of our credit rating, provide capital to support growth, appropriately fund employee benefit plans, pay dividends and repurchase common stock.

Strong financial position — A key measure of ME&T's financial strength used by management is ME&T's debt-to-capital ratio. Debt-to-capital is defined as short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year and long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum of debt and stockholders' equity. Debt also includes ME&T's long-term borrowings from Financial Products. The debt-to-capital ratio for ME&T was 41.0 percent at December 31, 2016, within our target range of 30 to 45 percent. The ME&T debt-to-capital ratio was 39.0 percent at December 31, 2015. The increase in the debt-to-capital ratio was due to a decrease in equity primarily resulting from dividend payments.

Capital to support growth — Capital expenditures during 2016 were $1.21 billion. We expect ME&T's capital expenditures in 2017 to be about flat with 2016.

Appropriately funded employee benefit plans — We made $329 million of contributions to our pension and OPEB plans in 2016 versus $350 million of contributions in 2015. We expect that required employee benefit plan contributions of approximately $610 million will be required in 2017. We believe we have adequate resources to fund our employee benefit plans.

Paying dividends — Dividends paid totaled $1.80 billion in 2016, representing 77 cents per share paid per quarter. Each quarter, our Board of Directors reviews the company's dividend for the applicable quarter. The Board evaluates the financial condition of the company and considers the economic outlook, corporate cash flow, the company's liquidity needs and the health and stability of global credit markets to determine whether to maintain or change the quarterly dividend.

Common stock repurchases — In January 2014, the Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase up to $10 billion of Caterpillar common stock (the 2014 Authorization), which will expire on December 31, 2018. We did not purchase any Caterpillar common stock in 2016. As of December 31, 2016, $5.47 billion remained available under the 2014 Authorization. Caterpillar's basic shares outstanding as of December 31, 2016 were 586 million.

Financial Products

Financial Products operating cash flow was $1.55 billion in 2016, compared with $1.39 billion in 2015. Net cash provided by investing activities in 2016 was $299 million, compared with cash used for investing activities of $1.02 billion in 2015. The change was primarily due to lower portfolio funding requirements. Net cash used for financing activities in 2016 was $1.07 billion, compared with $228 million in 2015. The change was primarily due to lower funding requirements for investing activities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
Contractual obligations

The company has committed cash outflow related to long-term debt, operating lease agreements, postretirement benefit obligations, purchase obligations, interest on long-term debt and other long-term contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2016, minimum payments for these obligations were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Amounts exclude debt issuance costs and fair value adjustments.

2 Amounts represent expected contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans through 2026, offset by expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts.

3 Amount represents invoices received and recorded as liabilities in 2016, but scheduled for payment in 2017. These represent short-term obligations made in the ordinary course of business.

4 Amount represents contractual obligations for material and services on order at December 31, 2016 but not yet delivered. These represent short-term obligations made in the ordinary course of business.

5 Amounts represent long-term commitments entered into with key suppliers for minimum purchases quantities.

6 Amounts represent estimated contractual interest payments on long-term debt, including capital lease interest payments.

7 Amounts represent contractual obligations primarily for logistics services agreements related to our former third party logistics business, software license and development contracts, IT consulting contracts and outsourcing contracts for benefit plan administration and software system support.

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, was $1,032 million at December 31, 2016. Payment of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. Due to the difficulty in determining the timing of settlements, these obligations are not included in the table above. We do not expect to make a tax payment related to these obligations within the next year that would significantly impact liquidity.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets, fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based compensation, reserves for product liability and insurance losses, postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We have incorporated many years of data into the determination of each of these estimates and we have not historically experienced significant adjustments. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Following are the methods and assumptions used in determining our estimates and an indication of the risks inherent in each.

52
Residual values for leased assets – The residual values for Cat Financial’s leased assets, which are an estimate of the market value of leased equipment at the end of the lease term, are based on an analysis of historical wholesale market sales prices, projected forward on a level trend line without consideration for inflation or possible future pricing action. At the inception of the lease, residual values are estimated with consideration of the following critical factors: market size and demand, any known significant market/product trends, total expected hours of usage, machine configuration, application, location, model changes, quantities, past re-marketing experience, third-party residual guarantees and contractual customer purchase options. Many of these factors are gathered in an application survey that is completed prior to quotation. The lease agreement also clearly defines applicable return conditions and remedies for non-compliance, to ensure that the leased equipment will be in good operating condition upon return. Model changes and updates, as well as market strength and product acceptance, are monitored and adjustments are made to residual values in accordance with the significance of any such changes. Remarketing sales staff works closely with customers and dealers to manage the sale of lease returns and the recovery of residual exposure.

During the term of the equipment on operating leases, we evaluate our depreciation on a regular basis taking into consideration expected residual values at lease termination. Adjustments to depreciation expense reflecting revised estimates of expected residual values at the end of the lease terms are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. For finance leases, residual value adjustments are recognized through a reduction of finance revenue. 

We evaluate the carrying value of equipment on operating leases for potential impairment when we determine a triggering event has occurred. When a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is performed by comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the equipment on operating leases. If the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the fair value of the equipment on operating leases is measured in accordance with the fair value measurement framework. An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the equipment on operating leases exceeds its estimated fair value.

At December 31, 2016, the aggregate residual value of equipment on operating leases was $2.27 billion. Without consideration of other factors such as third-party residual guarantees or contractual customer purchase options, a 10% non-temporary decrease in the market value of our equipment subject to operating leases would reduce residual value estimates and result in the recognition of approximately $90 million of additional annual depreciation expense.

Fair values for goodwill impairment tests – We test goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit level, and whenever events or circumstances make it likely that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell all or a portion of a reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing basis.

Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing either a qualitative assessment or a two-step process. If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is necessary. For reporting units where we perform the two-step process, the first step requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered impaired. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication that an impairment may exist and the second step is required. In step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss.

The impairment test process requires valuation of the respective reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on a discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a year-five residual value. The residual value is computed using the constant growth method, which values the forecasted cash flows in perpetuity. The income approach is supported by a reconciliation of our calculated fair value for Caterpillar to the company's market capitalization. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on each reporting unit's long-term forecast and are subject to review and approval by senior management. A reporting unit’s discount rate is a risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital, which we believe approximates the rate from a market participant's perspective. The estimated fair value could be impacted by changes in market conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing and capital expenditures. The fair value determination is categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to its use of internal projections and unobservable measurement inputs.

In 2015, our Resource Industries segment had two reporting units with goodwill: Hauling & Extraction and Material Handling & Underground. Effective January 1, 2016, product responsibility for off-highway trucks and wheel tractor scrapers transferred from Hauling & Extraction to Material Handling & Underground, and the former Hauling & Extraction reporting unit was renamed Surface Mining & Technology. As a result of the transfer in product responsibility, approximately $500 million of goodwill was 

53
reassigned from Hauling & Extraction to Material Handling & Underground based on the relative fair value of the products transferred to the total fair value of Hauling & Extraction. After the reassignment of goodwill, Surface Mining & Technology and Material Handling & Underground had goodwill of approximately $1.2 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, as of January 1, 2016. Because the former Hauling & Extraction reporting unit’s fair value was not substantially in excess of its carrying value as of October 1, 2015, we tested Surface Mining & Technology's goodwill for impairment as of January 1, 2016 and concluded that the fair value of the reporting unit continued to exceed its carrying value.

Our annual impairment tests completed in the fourth quarter of 2016 indicated the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially above its respective carrying value, including goodwill, with the exception of our Surface Mining & Technology reporting unit. Caterpillar’s market capitalization has remained significantly above the net book value of the Company. 

The Surface Mining & Technology reporting unit, which primarily serves the mining industry, is a part of our Resource Industries segment. The goodwill assigned to this reporting unit is largely from our acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc. in 2011. Its product portfolio includes large mining trucks, electric rope shovels, draglines, hydraulic shovels and related parts. In addition to equipment, Surface Mining & Technology also develops and sells technology products and services to provide customer fleet management, equipment management analytics and autonomous machine capabilities. The annual impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2016 indicated that the fair value of Surface Mining & Technology was below its carrying value requiring the second step of the goodwill impairment test process. We assigned the fair value to Surface Mining & Technology’s assets and liabilities using various valuation techniques that required assumptions about royalty rates, dealer attrition, technological obsolescence and discount rates. The resulting implied fair value of goodwill was below the carrying value. Accordingly, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $595 million, which resulted in goodwill of $629 million remaining for Surface Mining & Technology as of October 1, 2016. There was a $17 million tax benefit associated with this impairment charge. The mining industry has experienced significant weakness for several years as a result of low commodity prices. While we continue to expect the industry will improve, we believe the pace of the improvement will be slower and cash flows and profitability will be lower than previously forecasted. We believe the slow pace of improvement will in part be due to a large amount of equipment currently idled, particularly large mining trucks, some of which will be redeployed as end-user demand increases. In addition, we do not expect a dramatic increase in commodity prices, dampening the rate of growth in mining production and demand for our products. To reflect the gradual nature of the anticipated improvement, we used a ten year cash flow forecast period for the reporting unit rather than our typical five year forecast period. 

In addition to Surface Mining & Technology, our Resource Industries segment has a reporting unit, Material Handling & Underground, which includes goodwill of approximately $2.4 billion as of October 1, 2016, also largely from our acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc. in 2011. Material Handling & Underground’s product portfolio includes large track-type tractors, hard rock vehicles, longwall miners, track and rotary drills, highwall miners, large wheel loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, wheel-tractor scrapers, wheel dozers, landfill compactors, soil compactors, material handlers, continuous miners, scoops and haulers, hardrock continuous mining systems and related parts. The fair value of Material Handling & Underground remains substantially above its carrying value.

An unfavorable change in our expectations for the financial performance of our reporting units, particularly long-term growth and profitability, would reduce the fair value of our reporting units. The demand for our equipment and related parts is highly cyclical and significantly impacted by commodity prices, although the impact may vary by reporting unit. The energy and mining industries are major users of our products, including the coal, iron ore, gold, copper, oil and natural gas industries. Decisions to purchase our products are dependent upon the performance of those industries, which in turn are dependent in part on commodity prices. Lower commodity prices or industry specific circumstances that have a negative impact to the valuation assumptions may reduce the fair value of our reporting units. Should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will perform an interim goodwill impairment test(s), in addition to the annual impairment test. Future impairment tests may result in a goodwill impairment, depending on the outcome of both step one and step two of the impairment review process. A goodwill impairment would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings.

Impairment of available-for-sale securities – Available-for-sale securities, primarily at Insurance Services, are reviewed at least quarterly to identify fair values below cost which may indicate that a security is impaired and should be written down to fair value.

For debt securities, once a security’s fair value is below cost we utilize data gathered by investment managers, external sources and internal research to monitor the performance of the security to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. These reviews, which include an analysis of whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery, consist of both quantitative and qualitative analysis and require a degree of management judgment. Securities in a loss position are monitored and assessed at least quarterly based on severity and timing of loss and may be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at any time. Once a security’s fair value has been 20 percent or more below its original 

54
cost for six consecutive months, the security will be other-than-temporarily impaired unless there are sufficient facts and circumstances supporting otherwise.

For equity securities in a loss position, determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires an analysis of that security's historical sector return as well as the volatility of that return. This information is utilized to estimate a security’s future fair value and to assess whether the security has the ability to recover to its original cost over a reasonable period of time. Both historical annualized sector returns and the volatility of those returns are applied over a two year period to arrive at these estimates. 

For both debt and equity securities, qualitative factors are also considered in determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired. These include reviews of the following: significant changes in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of the investee, significant changes in the general market condition of either the geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates, and length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost. These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment.

Warranty liability – At the time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty costs. The warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer inventory. Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine size by customer or dealer location (inside or outside North America). Specific rates are developed for each product shipment month and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim experience. Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual claim rates are higher or lower than our historical rates.

Stock-based compensation – We use a lattice-based option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of our stock options and SARs. The calculation of the fair value of the awards using the lattice-based option-pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding the following:

•Volatility is a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate each year during the expected term of the award and is based on historical Caterpillar stock price movement and current implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock. The implied volatilities from traded options are impacted by changes in market conditions. An increase in the volatility would result in an increase in our expense.

•The expected term represents the period of time that awards granted are expected to be outstanding and is an output of the lattice-based option-pricing model. In determining the expected term of the award, future exercise and forfeiture patterns are estimated from Caterpillar employee historical exercise behavior. These patterns are also affected by the vesting conditions of the award. Changes in the future exercise behavior of employees or in the vesting period of the award could result in a change in the expected term. An increase in the expected term would result in an increase to our expense.

•The weighted-average dividend yield is based on Caterpillar’s historical dividend yields. As holders of stock options and SARs do not receive dividend payments, this could result in employees retaining the award for a longer period of time if dividend yields decrease or exercising the award sooner if dividend yields increase. A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our expense.

•The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at time of grant. As the risk-free interest rate increases, the expected term increases, resulting in an increase in our expense.

The fair value of our RSUs and PRSUs is determined by reducing the stock price on the date of grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period. The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar’s quarterly dividend per share at the time of grant. A decrease in the dividend per share would result in an increase in our expense.

Stock-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the number of awards that are expected to vest. In determining the stock-based compensation expense to be recognized, a forfeiture rate is applied to the fair value of the award. This rate represents the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited prior to vesting and is based on Caterpillar employee historical behavior. Changes in the future behavior of employees could impact this rate. A decrease in this rate would result in an increase in our expense. Stock-based compensation expense for PRSUs is based on the probable number of shares expected to vest. Changes in the expected probability of achieving performance targets in future periods may result in an increase or decrease in our expense.

Product liability and insurance loss reserve – We determine these reserves based upon reported claims in process of settlement and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not reported. Loss reserves, including incurred but not reported reserves, are based on estimates and ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates due to increased claims frequency or severity over historical levels.

55
Postretirement benefits – Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as follows:

•The assumed discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to today’s dollars. The U.S. discount rate is based on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement date, December 31. The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves analyzing Caterpillar’s projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds available on the measurement date. The very highest and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom 10 percent) are excluded from the analysis. A similar approach is used to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant non-U.S. plans. Discount rates are sensitive to changes in interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future expense.

At December 31, 2015, we changed our method for calculating the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost. Historically, these components were determined utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate based on the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. Beginning in 2016, we elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. We made this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between the projected cash flows to the corresponding spot rates along the yield curve. This change has no impact on our pension and other postretirement liabilities and has been accounted for prospectively as a change in accounting estimate beginning in the first quarter of 2016.

•The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities weighted by the allocation of our plan assets. Based on historical performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management of the plan assets. This rate is impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not significantly impacted by short-term market swings. Changes in our allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate. For example, a shift to more fixed income securities would lower the rate. A decrease in the rate would increase our expense. The expected return on plan assets is calculated using the fair value of plan assets as of our measurement date, December 31. 

•The expected rate of compensation increase is used to develop benefit obligations using projected pay at retirement. It represents average long-term salary increases. This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies. An increase in the rate would increase our obligation and expense.

•The assumed health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are assumed to increase and is based on historical and expected experience. Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general economic conditions and those specific to health care (e.g., technology driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate. An increase in the trend rate would increase our obligation and expense.

The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are considered actuarial gains or losses. We recognize actuarial gains or losses immediately through earnings upon the annual remeasurement in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis as triggering events warrant remeasurement. 

See Note 12 for further information regarding the accounting for postretirement benefits.

Post-sale discount reserve – We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs. We have numerous programs that are designed to promote the sale of our products. The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end user. The amount of accrued post-sale discounts was $1,288 million and $1,191 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The reserve represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is reviewed at least quarterly. The reserve is adjusted if discounts paid differ from those estimated. Historically, those adjustments have not been material.

Credit loss reserve – The allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the losses inherent in our finance receivable portfolio and includes consideration of accounts that have been individually identified as impaired, as well as pools of finance receivables where it is probable that certain receivables in the pool are impaired but the individual accounts cannot yet be identified. In identifying and measuring impairment, management takes into consideration past loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of underlying collateral and current economic conditions. 

56
Accounts are identified for individual review based on past-due status and information available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports and published credit ratings, as well as general information regarding industry trends and the economic environment in which our customers operate. The allowance for credit losses attributable to finance receivables that are individually evaluated and determined to be impaired is based either on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the receivables’ effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent receivables. In determining collateral value, we estimate the current fair market value of the collateral less selling costs. We also consider credit enhancements such as additional collateral and contractual third-party guarantees. The allowance for credit losses attributable to the remaining accounts not yet individually identified as impaired is estimated based on loss forecast models utilizing probabilities of default, our estimate of the loss emergence period and the estimated loss given default. In addition, qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in our loss forecast models including industry trends, macroeconomic factors and model imprecision are considered in the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses. These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment.

While management believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that in the future, changes in economic conditions or other factors would not cause changes in the financial health of our customers. If the financial health of our customers deteriorates, the timing and level of payments received could be impacted and therefore, could result in a change to our estimated losses.

Income taxes – We are subject to the income tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In establishing the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.

Despite our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, we believe that taxing authorities could challenge certain positions. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete disallowance, or some partial adjustment reached through negotiations or litigation. We record tax benefits for uncertain tax positions based upon management’s evaluation of the information available at the reporting date. To be recognized in the financial statements, a tax benefit must be at least more likely than not of being sustained based on technical merits. The benefit for positions meeting the recognition threshold is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required in making these determinations and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits may be necessary to reflect actual taxes payable upon settlement. Adjustments related to positions impacting the effective tax rate affect the provision for income taxes. Adjustments related to positions impacting the timing of deductions impact deferred tax assets and liabilities.

Our income tax positions and analysis are based on currently enacted tax law. Future changes in tax law could significantly impact the provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable, and the deferred tax asset and liability balances. Deferred tax assets generally represent tax benefits for tax deductions or credits available in future tax returns. Certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes the trend of U.S. GAAP earnings and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, we record or adjust the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts and circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes for 2016 includes an increase in the valuation allowance for U.S. state deferred tax assets resulting in a $141 million non-cash charge, net of federal deferred tax adjustment at 35 percent. The primary driver of the increase is recent U.S. GAAP losses expected to recur in 2017 in certain state jurisdictions and the weight given this negative objective evidence under income tax accounting guidance. Reversal of the valuation allowance in the future is dependent on U.S. GAAP profitability in these state jurisdictions giving less weight in the analysis to mark-to-market adjustments to remeasure our pension and OPEB plans as we do not consider these adjustments indicative of ongoing earnings trends. 

A provision for U.S. income taxes has not been recorded on undistributed profits of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. If management intentions or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there could be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. A deferred tax asset is recognized only if we have definite plans to generate a U.S. tax benefit by repatriating earnings in the foreseeable future.

Income taxes are based on the statutory tax rate of the jurisdiction in which earnings are subject to taxation. That statutory rate may differ from the statutory tax rate of the jurisdiction in which that entity is incorporated. Taxes are paid in the jurisdictions where earnings are subject to taxation. The effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate in part due to indefinitely reinvested profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries being subject to statutory tax rates which are generally lower than the U.S. rate of 35 

57
percent. The indefinitely reinvested profits of Caterpillar SARL (CSARL), primarily taxable in Switzerland, contribute the most significant amount of this difference. For tax years 2007 to 2012 including the impact of a loss carryback to 2005, the IRS has proposed to tax in the United States profits earned from certain parts transactions by CSARL based on the IRS examination team’s application of “substance-over-form” or “assignment-of-income” judicial doctrines. We are vigorously contesting the proposed increases to tax and penalties for these years of approximately $2 billion. We believe that the relevant transactions complied with applicable tax laws and did not violate judicial doctrines. The purchase of parts by CSARL from unrelated parties and the subsequent sale of those parts to unrelated dealers outside the United States have substantial legal, commercial, and economic consequences for the parties involved. We have filed U.S. income tax returns on this same basis for years after 2012. We currently believe the ultimate disposition of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

OTHER MATTERS

ENVIRONMENTAL AND LEGAL MATTERS 

The Company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital expenditures to comply with these emissions standards.

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the investigation, remediation, and operating and maintenance costs are accrued against our earnings. Costs are accrued based on consideration of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies, current applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, we accrue the minimum. Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of the probable costs. In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others. We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis. The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in Accrued expenses. We believe there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

On January 8, 2015, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois. The subpoena requests documents and information from the Company relating to, among other things, financial information concerning U.S. and non-U.S. Caterpillar subsidiaries (including undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries and the movement of cash among U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries). The Company has received additional subpoenas relating to this investigation requesting additional documents and information relating to, among other things, the purchase and resale of replacement parts by Caterpillar Inc. and non-U.S. Caterpillar subsidiaries, dividend distributions of certain non-U.S. Caterpillar subsidiaries, and Caterpillar SARL and related structures. The Company is cooperating with this investigation. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate any potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

On September 10, 2014, the SEC issued to Caterpillar a subpoena seeking information concerning the Company’s accounting for the goodwill relating to its acquisition of Bucyrus International Inc. in 2011 and related matters. The Company has received additional subpoenas relating to this investigation, and the Company is cooperating with the SEC regarding its ongoing investigation. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate any potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

On March 20, 2014, Brazil’s Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE) published a Technical Opinion which named 18 companies and over 100 individuals as defendants, including two subsidiaries of Caterpillar Inc., MGE - Equipamentos e Serviços Ferroviários Ltda. (MGE) and Caterpillar Brasil Ltda. The publication of the Technical Opinion opened CADE's official administrative investigation into allegations that the defendants participated in anticompetitive bid activity for the construction and maintenance of metro and train networks in Brazil. While companies cannot be held criminally liable for anticompetitive conduct in Brazil, criminal charges have been brought against two current employees of MGE and one former employee of MGE involving the same conduct alleged by CADE. The Company has responded to all requests for information from the authorities. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

58
On October 24, 2013, Progress Rail received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The subpoena requests documents and information from Progress Rail, United Industries Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Progress Rail, and Caterpillar Inc. relating to allegations that Progress Rail conducted improper or unnecessary railcar inspections and repairs and improperly disposed of parts, equipment, tools and other items. In connection with this subpoena, Progress Rail was informed by the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of environmental laws and alleged improper business practices. The Company is cooperating with the authorities and is currently in discussions regarding a potential resolution of the matter. Although the Company believes a loss is probable, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 

In addition, we are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues, environmental matters or intellectual property rights. The aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities, if any, associated with these unresolved legal actions is not material. In some cases, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss because there is insufficient information regarding the matter. However, we believe there is no more than a remote chance that any liability arising from these matters would be material. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 

RETIREMENT BENEFITS

We recognize mark-to-market gains and losses immediately through earnings upon the remeasurement of our pension and OPEB plans. Mark-to-market gains and losses represent the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions. Changes in discount rates and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets generally have the largest impact on mark-to-market gains and losses. 

We recognized expense of $957 million in 2016, expense of $292 million in 2015 and expense of $2.71 billion in 2014 related to our defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. The increase in expense in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to a higher net mark-to-market loss in 2016 compared to 2015 and lower expected return on plan assets as a result of a lower asset base in 2016 compared to 2015 and a lower expected rate of return on plan assets. This was partially offset by lower interest costs primarily due to adoption of a full yield curve approach in the estimation of interest cost (discussed below) and lower service costs primarily due to fewer employees earning benefits under our plans as a result of the U.S. voluntary retirement enhancement program that was implemented in the fourth quarter 2015. The decrease in expense in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to a lower net mark-to-market loss in 2015 compared to 2014. 

The primary factors that resulted in mark-to-market losses for 2016, 2015 and 2014 are described below:

•2016 net mark-to-market loss of $985 million - Primarily due to lower discount rates at the end of 2016 compared to the end of 2015 and changes in our U.S. mortality assumption (discussed below). This was partially offset by the difference between the actual return on plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets (U.S. pension plans had an actual rate of return of 7.8 percent compared to an expected rate of return of 6.9 percent).

•2015 net mark-to-market loss of $179 million - Primarily due to the difference between the actual return on plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets (U.S. pension plans had an actual rate of return of (2.0) percent compared to an expected rate of return of 7.4 percent) which was partially offset by higher discount rates at the end of 2015 compared to 2014.

•2014 net mark-to-market loss of $2.62 billion - Primarily due to lower discount rates at the end of 2014 compared to the end of 2013 and changes to our U.S. mortality assumption (discussed below).

59
The net mark-to-market losses were in the following Results of Operations line items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the fourth quarter of 2014, the mortality assumption for our U.S. pension and OPEB plans was reviewed to consider the use of new tables that were released by the Society of Actuaries (SoA). As of December 31, 2014, the company adopted the new tables with modifications to reflect historical company specific mortality experience and its best estimate of future mortality improvements. The adoption of the new tables resulted in an increase in the life expectancy of plan participants and therefore an increase in our Liability for postemployment benefits of approximately $400 million. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the mortality assumption for our U.S. pension and OPEB plans was reviewed to consider the use of new mortality improvement projection scales that were released by the SoA. As of December 31, 2016, the company adopted the new mortality improvement projection scales which resulted in an increase in the life expectancy of plan participants and therefore an increase in our Liability for postemployment benefits of approximately $200 million. 

At December 31, 2015, we changed our method for calculating the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost. Historically, these components were determined utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate based on a yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. Beginning in 2016, we elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. We made this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between the projected cash flows to the corresponding spot rates along the yield curve. Under the previous method the discount rate used for the service and interest components of cost would have been 4.2 percent for U.S. pensions, 3.2 percent for non-U.S. pension and 4.1 percent for OPEB. This change had no impact on our year-end defined benefit pension and OPEB obligations or our annual net periodic benefit cost as the lower service and interest costs were entirely offset in the actuarial loss (gain) reported. Compared to the method used in 2015, this change lowered service and interest costs by $180 million.

We expect our total defined benefit pension and OPEB expense (excluding the impact of mark-to-market gains and losses) to increase approximately $50 million in 2017. 

In general, our strategy for both the U.S. and the non-U.S. pensions includes ongoing alignment of our investments to our liabilities, while reducing risk in our portfolio. For our U.S. pension plans, our year-end 2016 asset allocation was 41 percent equity securities, 56 percent fixed income securities and 3 percent other. Our current U.S. pension target asset allocations is 40 percent equity and 60 percent fixed income. The target allocations will be revisited periodically to reflect our overall objectives. The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus or minus 5 percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a monthly basis.

The year-end 2016 asset allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans was 38 percent equity securities, 55 percent fixed income securities, 5 percent real estate and 2 percent other. The 2016 target allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans was 39 percent equity securities, 52 percent fixed income securities, 6 percent real estate and 3 percent other. The target allocations for each plan vary based upon local statutory requirements, demographics of the plan participants and funded status. The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan.

Contributions to our pension and OPEB plans were $329 million and $350 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect to make approximately $610 million of contributions to our pension and OPEB plans in 2017. We believe we have adequate resources to fund both pension and OPEB plans.

Actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on both pension and OPEB expenses. The effects of a one percentage point change in our primary actuarial assumptions on 2016 benefit costs and year-end obligations are included in the table below.

60
Postretirement Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity

Following are the effects of a one percentage-point change in our primary pension and OPEB actuarial assumptions (included in the following table) on 2016 pension and other OPEB costs and obligations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SENSITIVITY

Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity

Machinery, Energy & Transportation operations use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to five years. Based on the anticipated and firmly committed cash inflow and outflow for our Machinery, Energy & Transportation operations for the next 12 months and the foreign currency derivative instruments in place at year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies would adversely affect our expected 2017 cash flow for our Machinery, 

61
Energy & Transportation operations by approximately $143 million. Last year similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $318 million adverse impact on 2016 cash flow. We determine our net exposures by calculating the difference in cash inflow and outflow by currency and adding or subtracting outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments. We multiply these net amounts by 10 percent to determine the sensitivity.

Since our policy for Financial Products operations is to hedge the foreign exchange risk when the currency of our debt portfolio does not match the currency of our receivable portfolio, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Neither our policy nor the effect of a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar has changed from that reported at the end of last year.

The effect of the hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have on other variables, including competitive risk. If it were possible to quantify this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the sensitivity effects shown above. In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar. In reality, some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen. Our primary exposure (excluding competitive risk) is to exchange rate movements in the Japanese yen, euro, Chinese yuan, British pound and Australian dollar.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

For our Machinery, Energy & Transportation operations, we have the option to use interest rate swaps to lower the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to fixed-rate debt, and by entering into forward rate agreements on future debt issuances. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would have a minimal impact to the 2017 pre-tax earnings of Machinery, Energy & Transportation. Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a minimal impact to 2016 pre-tax earnings. 

For our Financial Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to meet our match-funding objectives and strategies. We have a match-funding policy whereby the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio is matched to the interest rate profile of our earning asset portfolio (finance receivables and operating leases) within certain parameters. In connection with that policy, we use interest rate swap agreements to modify the debt structure. Match funding assists us in maintaining our interest rate spreads, regardless of the direction interest rates move.

In order to properly manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products measures the potential impact of different interest rate assumptions on pre-tax earnings. All on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial instruments, are included in the analysis. The primary assumptions included in the analysis are that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities, the proportion of fixed rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the level of floating rate assets and debt remain constant. An analysis of the December 31, 2016 balance sheet, using these assumptions, estimates the impact of a 100 basis point immediate and sustained adverse change in interest rates to have a potential $6 million adverse impact on 2017 pre-tax earnings. Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $13 million adverse impact to 2016 pre-tax earnings.

This analysis does not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate movement, nor does it consider any actions management could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual results would be consistent with the results of our estimate.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

The following definitions are provided for the non-GAAP financial measures used in this report. These non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to the calculation of similar measures for other companies. Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures.

We believe it is important to separately quantify the profit impact of several special items in order for our results to be meaningful to our readers. These items consist of (i) restructuring costs, which are incurred in the current year to generate longer term benefits, (ii) pension and OPEB mark-to-market losses resulting from plan remeasurements, (iii) goodwill impairment charges and (iv) state deferred tax valuation allowances. We do not consider these items indicative of earnings from ongoing business activities and believe the non-GAAP measure will provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. 

Reconciliations of adjusted profit before taxes to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, consolidated profit before taxes, are as follows:

62
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliations of adjusted profit per share to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, diluted profit per share, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Supplemental Consolidating Data

We are providing supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis. The data has been grouped as follows:

Consolidated – Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Machinery, Energy & Transportation – Caterpillar defines Machinery, Energy & Transportation as it is presented in the supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis. Machinery, Energy & Transportation information relates to the design, manufacturing and marketing of our products. Financial Products' information relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment. The nature of these businesses is different, especially with regard to the financial position and cash flow items. Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these differences. We also believe this presentation will assist readers in understanding our business.

Financial Products – Our finance and insurance subsidiaries, primarily Cat Financial and Insurance Services.

Consolidating Adjustments – Eliminations of transactions between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

Pages 64 to 66 reconcile Machinery, Energy & Transportation with Financial Products on the equity basis to Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information.

63
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.

2 Elimination of Financial Products’ revenues earned from Machinery, Energy & Transportation.

3 Elimination of net expenses recorded by Machinery, Energy & Transportation paid to Financial Products.

4 Elimination of interest expense recorded between Financial Products and Machinery, Energy & Transportation.

5 Elimination of discount recorded by Machinery, Energy & Transportation on receivables sold to Financial Products and of interest earned between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

6 Elimination of Financial Products’ profit due to equity method of accounting.

7 Profit (loss) attributable to common stockholders.

64
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.

2 Elimination of receivables between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

3 Reclassification of Machinery, Energy & Transportation's trade receivables purchased by Financial Products and Financial Products' wholesale inventory receivables.

4 Elimination of Machinery, Energy & Transportation's insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial Products.

5 Elimination of Financial Products’ equity which is accounted for by Machinery, Energy & Transportation on the equity basis.

6 Reclassification reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing jurisdiction.

7 Elimination of debt between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

8 Elimination of payables between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

9 Elimination of prepaid insurance in Financial Products’ other liabilities.

65
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.

2 Elimination of Financial Products’ profit after tax due to equity method of accounting.

3 Elimination of Financial Products' dividend to Machinery, Energy & Transportation in excess of Financial Products' profit.

4 Elimination of non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to consolidated reporting.

5 Reclassification of Financial Products' cash flow activity from investing to operating for receivables that arose from the sale of inventory.

6 Elimination of net proceeds and payments to/from Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial Products.

7 Elimination of dividend from Financial Products to Machinery, Energy & Transportation.

8 Elimination of proceeds received from Financial Products related to Machinery, Energy & Transportation’s sale of businesses and investments.

9 Elimination of change in investment and common stock related to Financial Products.

66
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.