PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We own, operate and lease towers and other communication structures, including certain rooftop installations (collectively, “towers”), for wireless communications. Our core business is renting space on our towers via long-term contracts in various forms, including license, sublease and lease agreements. Generally, our towers can accommodate multiple customers (“co-location”) for antennas and other equipment necessary for the transmission of wireless signals for mobile telephones and other devices. Revenues derived from this site rental business represented 93% of our 2007 consolidated revenues.  

Information concerning our tower portfolio as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:  

   •    We owned, leased or managed approximately 23,800 towers.  

   •    We have the most towers (exclusive of rooftop installations) in the United States (“U.S.”) of any wireless tower company, with over 21,800 towers. We also have approximately 1,400 towers in Australia, and the remainder of our towers are located in Puerto Rico and Canada.  

   •    Our customers include many of the world’s major wireless communications companies. In the U.S., Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile accounted for 72% and 68% of our 2007 CCUSA and consolidated revenues, respectively. In Australia, our customers include Optus, Vodafone, Telstra and Hutchison.  

   •    Approximately 54% and 72% of our towers in the U.S. and Puerto Rico were located in the 50 and 100 largest basic trading areas, or “BTAs”, respectively. Through our Australia tower portfolio, we have a strategic presence in each of Australia’s major metropolitan areas, including Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.  

   •    We owned in fee or had perpetual or long-term easements in the land and other properties (collectively “land”) on which approximately 4,700 of our towers reside, and we leased, subleased or licensed the land on which approximately 18,400 of our towers reside. In addition, we managed approximately 700 towers owned by third parties where we had the right to market space on the tower or where we had sublease agreements with the tower owner.  

Our site rental revenues typically result from long-term contracts with (1) initial terms of five to ten years, (2) multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each, and (3) contractual escalators of the rental price. As a result, the vast majority of our site rental revenues is of a recurring nature and has been contracted for in a prior year. We seek to increase our site rental revenues by adding more tenants on our existing towers, which should result in significant incremental cash flow due to our relatively fixed tower operating costs.  

To a much lesser extent, we also provide certain network services relating to our towers, including antenna installations and subsequent augmentation, network design and site selection, site acquisition, site development and other services.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Strategy  

Our strategy is to increase long-term shareholder value by translating anticipated future growth in our core site rental business into growth of our results of operations on a per share basis. We believe our strategy is consistent with our mission to deliver the highest level of service to our customers at all times – striving to be their critical partner as we assist them in growing efficient, ubiquitous wireless networks. The key elements of our strategy are to:  

   ·    Organically grow the revenues and cash flows from our towers. We seek to maximize the site rental revenues of our towers by co-locating additional tenants on our existing towers as a solution for wireless carriers to deploy and improve their wireless networks. We seek to maximize additional tenant co-locations through our focus on customer service and deployment speed and by leveraging our web-based proprietary tools. Due to the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our towers (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation), the increased revenues from additional co-locations and contracted escalators should result in significant incremental gross margin and growth in our operating cash flows. We believe there is considerable additional future demand for our existing towers based on the location of those towers (significant presence in 91 of the top 100 BTAs in the U.S. and Puerto Rico) and the anticipated growth in the wireless communications industry.  

   ·    Allocate capital efficiently. We seek to invest our available capital efficiently among the investment alternatives that we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long-term results of operations on a per share basis. As such, we may seek to:  

   •    opportunistically purchase shares of our own common stock (“common stock”) from time to time;  

   •    enter into acquisitions of tower businesses;  

   •    selectively construct or acquire towers;  

   •    acquire land under towers;  

   •    make improvements and structural enhancements to our existing towers;  

   •    construct distributed antenna systems; and  

   •    purchase or redeem our debt or preferred stock.  

Our strategy is based on our belief that opportunities will be created by the expected continuation of growth in the wireless communications industry, which depends on the demand for wireless telephony and data services by consumers. The following is a discussion of certain growth trends in the wireless communications industry:  

   ·    Wireless carriers have focused on improving network quality by adding additional antennas for the transmission of their services in an effort to improve customer retention and satisfaction.  

   ·    Consumers are increasing their use of wireless voice and data services. According to the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (“CTIA”) U.S. wireless industry survey issued on October 23, 2007:  

   •    Minutes of use exceeded 1.1 trillion for the first half of 2007, which represents a year-over-year increase of 18%.  

   •    Wireless data service revenues for the first half of 2007 were $10.5 billion, which represents a year-over-year increase of 63%.  

   •    Wireless users totaled 243 million as of June 30, 2007, which represents a year-over-year increase of 24 million subscribers, or 11%.  

   ·    Our customers have introduced, and we believe they plan to continue to introduce, next generation wireless technologies, including third generation (“3G”) and wireless data technology, such as email, internet and mobile video. We expect these next generation technologies should translate into additional demand for tower space.  

   ·    We have seen and anticipate there could be other new entrants into the wireless communications industry that should deploy regional or national wireless networks for voice and data services.  

   ·    The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) auctioned spectrum licenses in the Advanced Wireless Services Auction No. 66 during the third quarter of 2006 and the 700 MHz Band Auction No. 73 that began in January 2008. We expect that these spectrum auctions and future auctions should enable next generation networks and possibly enable one or more new entrants into the wireless communications industry.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

2007 Highlights and Recent Developments  

During 2007, we engaged in a number of significant activities consistent with our strategy, including (1) the Global Signal Merger and the related $1.8 billion of mortgage loans, (2) purchases of our common stock, and (3) the lease of our 1670-1675 MHz U.S. nationwide spectrum license (“Spectrum”) previously utilized by our Modeo business. The Global Signal Merger, which nearly doubled our tower portfolio, is discussed below under “Item 1. The Company—CCUSA.” See “Item 7. MD&A” and our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these and other activities occurring in 2007 and the beginning of 2008.  

The Company  

We operate our business primarily in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico) and Australia, with nominal operations in Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). We conduct our operations principally through subsidiaries of Crown Castle Operating Company (“CCOC”), including (1) certain subsidiaries which operate our tower portfolios in the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada (collectively referred to as “CCUSA”) and (2) a 77.6% owned subsidiary that operates our Australia tower portfolio (referred to as “CCAL”). For more information about our operating segments, including the reclassification of the Corporate Office and Other segment and the Emerging Businesses segment into our CCUSA segment, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements and “Item 7. MD&A.”  

CCUSA  

Overview. The core business of CCUSA is the renting of antenna space on our towers to a variety of tenants under long-term contracts. Supporting our competitive position in the site rental business, we offer our tenants certain network services relating to our towers, including antenna installations and other services. At December 31, 2007, CCUSA owned, leased or managed approximately 22,400 towers, including rooftop installations. Although we own, lease or manage approximately 250 towers located in Puerto Rico and Canada that are included in CCUSA, our towers are predominately located in the U.S., with concentrations in the 50 and 100 largest BTAs.  

Most of our CCUSA towers were acquired through transactions consummated within the past eight years, including through the transactions summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) 6,553 towers were originally acquired by Global Signal from Sprint (a predecessor of Sprint Nextel).  

 (b) The towers from GTE wireless were acquired in multiple closings from January 2000 through September 2000.  

 (c) The towers from Bell South Mobility and Bell South DCS were acquired in multiple closings from June 1999 through December 2000.  

 (d) Now part of Verizon Wireless.  

 (e) Now part of AT&T.  

 (f) Now part of T-Mobile.  

On October 5, 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement which contemplated the merger of Global Signal into a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. Pursuant to the merger agreement, on January 12, 2007, Global Signal was merged with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $4.0 billion, exclusive of debt of approximately $1.8 billion (having a structure similar to our tower revenue notes) that remained outstanding as obligations following the Global Signal Merger. See note 7 to our consolidated   

3  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 financial statements. As a result of the completion of Global Signal Merger, we issued approximately 98.1 million shares of common stock and paid the maximum $550.0 million in cash (“GS $550M Consideration”) to the stockholders of Global Signal and reserved for issuance approximately 0.6 million shares of common stock issuable pursuant to Global Signal warrants. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal” and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.  

As a result of the Global Signal Merger, we acquired 10,749 additional towers which are located predominately in the U.S. Of such 10,749 towers, 6,553 towers (“Sprint Towers”) are leased (including managed) for a period of 32 years (through May 2037) under master leases and subleases (“Sprint Master Leases”) with Sprint Corporation (a predecessor of Sprint Nextel) and certain subsidiaries of Sprint Corporation entered into in May 2005. Global Signal prepaid the rent owed under the Sprint Master Leases in May 2005. During the period commencing one year prior to the expiration of the Sprint Master Leases and ending 120 days prior to expiration, we have the option to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Sprint Towers then leased for approximately $2.3 billion. We are entitled to all revenue from the Sprint Towers during the term of the Sprint Master Leases, including amounts payable under existing leases with third parties. In addition, under the Sprint Master Leases, certain Sprint Corporation subsidiaries have agreed to sublease space on substantially all of the Sprint Towers for an initial period through May 2015. The Sprint Master Leases remain effective as our assets and commitments following the closing of the Global Signal Merger.  

Site Rental. CCUSA rents space on its towers for antennas and other equipment necessary for the transmission of wireless signals to a variety of carriers operating cellular, personal communications services (“PCS”), enhanced specialized mobile radio, 3G, wireless data, paging, fixed point-to-point radio, and point to multipoint broadcasting (such as radio and television broadcasting).  

We generally receive monthly rental payments from tenants, payable under site leases. Recently, our new leases at CCUSA typically have original terms of seven to ten years (with three or four optional renewal periods of five years each) and provide for annual price increases based upon a consumer price index, a fixed percentage or a combination thereof. The lease agreements with our tenants relating to tower network acquisitions generally have an original term of ten years, with multiple renewal options at the option of the tenant, each typically ranging from five to ten years. We have existing master lease agreements with most major wireless carriers, including Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile, which provide certain terms (including economic terms) that govern leases on our towers entered into by such parties during the term of their master lease agreements.  

The average monthly rental payment of a new tenant added to a tower varies among the different regions in the U.S. and the type of service being provided by the tenant, with broadband tenants (such as PCS) paying more than narrowband tenants (such as paging), primarily as a result of the physical size of the antenna installation. We also routinely receive rental payment increases in connection with lease amendments which authorize carriers to add additional antennas or other equipment to towers on which they already have equipment pursuant to pre-existing lease agreements.  

The majority of the operating costs of our site rental business consists of ground lease expense, property taxes, repairs and maintenance, utilities, insurance and salaries, which tend to escalate at approximately the rate of inflation. As a result of the relative fixed nature of these costs, the co-location of additional tenants is achieved at a low incremental cost resulting in high incremental cash flows.  

Network Services. We also provide network services, on a limited basis, primarily relating to our towers for our tenants. Our service offerings consist of antenna installations and subsequent augmentation, network design and site selection, site acquisition, site development and other services. We have the capability and expertise to install, with the assistance of our network of subcontractors, equipment and antenna systems for our customers. These activities are typically non-recurring and highly competitive, with a number of local competitors in most markets. We typically bill for our antenna installation services on a fixed price basis. Network services revenues are received primarily from wireless communications companies or their agents.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Customers. In both the site rental and network services businesses, we work with a number of customers. We work extensively with large national wireless carriers such as Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile. Although emerging and second tier wireless carriers (such as those offering wireless data technologies and flat rate calling plans) represent only a modest portion of our revenues for 2007, we experienced an increase in new tenant additions from emerging and second tier wireless carriers in 2007. The following table summarizes the net revenues from our four largest customers expressed as a percentage of CCUSA’s and our consolidated revenues for 2007. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales and Marketing. The CCUSA sales organization markets our towers within the wireless communications industry with the objective of renting space on existing towers and preselling capacity on our new towers prior to construction. We seek to become the critical partner and preferred independent tower provider for our customers and increase customer satisfaction relative to our peers.  

We use public and proprietary databases to develop targeted marketing programs focused on carrier network build-outs, modifications, site additions and network services. Information about carriers’ existing location of antenna space, leases, marketing strategies, capital spend plans, deployment status, and actual wireless carrier signal strength measurements taken in the field is analyzed to match specific towers in our portfolios with potential new site demand. We have developed a patented web-based tool that stores key tower information above and beyond normal property management information, including data on actual customer signal strength, demographics, site readiness and competitive structures. In addition, the web-based tool assists us in estimating potential demand for our towers with greater speed and accuracy. Through these and other tools we have developed, we seek to have proactive discussions with our customers regarding their wireless infrastructure deployment plans and the timing and location of their demand for our towers.  

A team of national account directors maintains our relationships with our largest customers. These directors work to develop new tower leasing opportunities, network services contracts and site management opportunities, as well as to ensure that customers’ tower needs are efficiently translated into new leases on our towers. Sales personnel in our area offices develop and maintain local relationships with carriers that are expanding their networks, entering new markets, bringing new technologies to market or requiring maintenance or add-on business. In addition to our full-time sales and marketing staff, a number of senior managers and officers spend a significant portion of their time on sales and marketing activities and call on existing and prospective customers.  

Competition. CCUSA competes with (1) other independent tower owners which also provide site rental and network services; (2) wireless carriers which build, own and operate their own tower networks; (3) broadcasters with respect to their broadcast towers; (4) building owners that rent antenna space on rooftop sites; and (5) other potential competitors, such as utilities and outdoor advertisers, some of which actively participate in the site rental industry. Wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower networks generally are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we have. We believe that tower location and capacity, deployment speed, quality of service and price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of a tower.  

Some of the larger independent tower companies with which CCUSA competes in the U.S. include American Tower Corporation, SBA Communications Corporation and Global Tower Partners. Significant additional site rental competition comes from the renting of rooftops, utility structures and other alternative sites for antennas.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Competitors in the network services business include site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners and managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors, and our customers’ internal staffs. We believe that carriers base their decisions on the outsourcing of network services on criteria such as a company’s experience, track record, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.  

CCAL  

Our primary business in Australia is the renting of antenna space on towers to our customers. CCAL is owned 77.6% by us and 22.4% by Permanent Nominees (Aust) Ltd, acting on behalf of a group of professional and institutional investors led by Jump Capital Limited. CCAL is the largest independent tower operator in Australia. As of December 31, 2007, CCAL had approximately 1,400 towers, with a strategic presence in each of Australia’s major metropolitan areas, including Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. CCAL also provides a range of services including site maintenance and property management services for towers owned by third parties.  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, CCAL comprised 6% of our consolidated net revenues. CCAL’s principal customers are Optus, Vodafone, Telstra and Hutchison. For the year ended December 31, 2007, these four carriers accounted for approximately 95% of CCAL’s revenues, with Optus and Vodafone accounting for 34% and 30%, respectively.  

The majority of CCAL’s towers were acquired from Optus (in 2000) and Vodafone (in 2001). In connection with these transactions, Optus agreed to rent space on the former Optus towers for an initial term of 15 years, and Vodafone agreed to rent space on the former Vodafone towers for an initial rent free term of ten years.  

In Australia, CCAL competes with wireless carriers, which own and operate their own tower networks; service companies that provide site maintenance and property management services; and other site owners, such as broadcasters and building owners. The two other significant tower owners in Australia are Broadcast Australia, an independent operator of broadcast towers, and Telstra, a wireless carrier. We believe that tower location, capacity, quality of service, deployment speed and price within a geographic market are the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of a tower.  

Several 3G networks continue to be developed in Australia by CCAL’s major customers. Each of these 3G networks has already utilized a number of our towers in connection with its deployment, and we expect more of our towers will be utilized by each of these networks in 2008. In addition, broadband wireless networks continue to be deployed including a planned network to serve rural Australia.  

Employees  

At February 19, 2008, we employed approximately 1,200 people worldwide. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages, and management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.  

Regulatory Matters  

To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international regulations. The summary below is based on regulations currently in effect, and such regulations are subject to review and modification by the applicable governmental authority from time to time. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be fined or even lose our rights to conduct some of our business.  

United States  

Federal Regulations. Both the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) regulate towers used for wireless communications, radio and television broadcasting. Such regulations control the siting, lighting and marking of towers and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require the registration of tower facilities with the FCC and the issuance of determinations confirming no hazard to air traffic. Wireless communications devices operating on towers are separately regulated and independently licensed based upon the particular frequency used. In addition, the FCC and the FAA have developed standards to consider proposals for  

6  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 new or modified tower and antenna structures based upon the height and location, including proximity to airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing tower and antenna structures above certain heights are reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to aviation, which determination may be conditioned upon compliance with lighting and marking requirements. The FCC requires its licensees to operate communications devices only on towers that comply with FAA rules and are registered with the FCC, if required by its regulations. Where tower lighting is required by FAA regulation, tower owners bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outage and ensuring the timely restoration of such outages. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.  

Local Regulations. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 to preserve state and local zoning authorities’ jurisdiction over the siting of communications towers. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting actions by local authorities that discriminate between different service providers of wireless services or ban altogether the provision of wireless services. Additionally, the law prohibits state and local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.  

Local regulations include city and other local ordinances (including subdivision and zoning ordinances), approvals for construction, modification and removal of towers, and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require us to obtain approval from local officials prior to tower construction. Local zoning authorities may render decisions that prevent the construction or modification of towers or place conditions on such construction or modifications that are responsive to community residents’ concerns regarding the height, visibility and other characteristics of the towers. Decisions of local zoning authorities may also adversely affect the timing and cost of tower construction and modification.  

Other Regulations. We hold, through certain of our subsidiaries, certain licenses for radio transmission facilities granted by the FCC, including licenses for common carrier microwave service, commercial and private mobile radio service, specialized mobile radio and paging service, which are subject to additional regulation by the FCC. Our FCC license relating to the Spectrum contains certain conditions related to the services that may be provided thereunder, the technical equipment used in connection therewith and the circumstances under which it may be renewed. We are required to obtain the FCC’s approval prior to assigning or transferring control of our FCC licenses.  

Australia  

Federal Regulations. Carrier licenses and nominated carrier declarations issued under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 authorize the use of network units for the supply of telecommunications services to the public. The definition of “network units” includes line links and base stations used for wireless telephony services but does not include tower infrastructure. Accordingly, CCAL as a tower owner and operator does not require a carrier license under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997. Similarly, because CCAL does not own any transmitters or spectrum, it does not currently require any apparatus or spectrum licenses issued under the Australian Radiocommunications Act 1992.  

Carriers have a statutory obligation to provide other carriers with access to towers, and if there is a dispute (including a pricing dispute), the matter may be referred to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission for resolution. As a non-carrier, CCAL is not subject to this regime, and our customers negotiate site access on a commercial basis.  

While the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 grants certain exemptions from planning laws for the installation of “low impact facilities,” newly constructed towers are expressly excluded from the definition of “low impact facilities.” Accordingly, in connection with the construction of towers, CCAL is subject to state and local planning laws which vary on a site by site basis. Structural enhancements may be undertaken on behalf of a carrier without state and local planning approval under the general “maintenance power” under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997, although these enhancements may be subject to state and local planning laws if CCAL is unable to obtain carrier co-operation to use that legislative power. For a limited number of towers, CCAL is also required to install aircraft warning lighting in compliance with federal aviation regulations. In Australia, a carrier may arguably be able to utilize the “maintenance power” under the Australian Telecommunications Act of 1997 to remain as a tenant on a tower after the expiration of a site license or sublease; however, CCAL’s customer access agreements generally limit the ability of customers to do this, and, even if a carrier did utilize this power, the   

7  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 carrier would be required to pay for CCAL’s financial loss, which would roughly equal the site rental revenues that would have otherwise been payable.  

Local Regulations. In Australia there are various local, state and territory laws and regulations which relate to, among other things, town planning and zoning restrictions, standards and approvals for the design, construction or alteration of a structure or facility, and environmental regulations. As in the U.S., these laws vary greatly, but typically require tower owners to obtain approval from governmental bodies prior to tower construction and to comply with environmental laws on an ongoing basis.  

Environmental Matters  

To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international environmental regulations or matters. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

The construction of new towers in the U.S. may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (“NEPA”) which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of major federal actions. The FCC has promulgated regulations implementing NEPA which require applicants to investigate the potential environmental impact of the proposed tower construction. Should the proposed tower construction present a significant environmental impact, the FCC must prepare an environmental impact statement, subject to public comment. If a proposed tower may have a significant impact on the environment, the FCC’s approval of the construction could be significantly delayed.  

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes. As an owner, lessee or operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint-and-several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination relating to existing or historical operations; and we could also be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to such contamination. We are potentially subject to environmental and cleanup liabilities in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico) and Australia.  

As licensees and tower owners, we are also subject to regulations and guidelines that impose a variety of operational requirements relating to radio frequency emissions. As employers, we are subject to OSHA (and similar occupational health and safety legislation in Australia) and similar guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years.  

We have compliance programs and monitoring projects to help assure that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on us.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

  Item 1A. Risk Factors