Item 1A. Risk Factors   

You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities.  

Our business depends on the demand for wireless communications and towers, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand.  

Demand for our towers depends on the demand for antenna space from our customers, which, in turn, depends on the demand for wireless telephony and data services by their customers. The willingness of our customers to utilize our infrastructure, or renew existing leases on our towers, is affected by numerous factors, including:  

   •    consumer demand for wireless services;  

   •    availability and capacity of our towers and the land under those towers;  

   •    location of our towers and alternative towers;  

   •    availability and cost of capital to our customers;  

   •    willingness to co-locate equipment;  

   •    local and state restrictions on the proliferation of towers;  

   •    cost of constructing towers;  

   •    technological changes affecting the number or type of towers or other communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area; and  

   •    our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ service requirements.  

A slowdown in demand for wireless communications or our towers may negatively impact our revenues, result in an impairment of our assets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  

A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of, or network sharing among, any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenues.  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 68% of our consolidated revenue was derived from Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile, which represented 25%, 19%, 15% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of bankruptcy, insolvency, consolidation, merger with other customers of ours or otherwise may materially decrease our revenues and have other adverse effects on our business. We cannot guarantee that the leases (including management agreements) with our major wireless carriers will not be terminated or that these carriers will renew such agreements.  

Wireless carriers frequently enter into agreements with their competitors allowing them to utilize one another’s towers to accommodate customers who are out of range of their home providers’ services. In addition, wireless carriers have also entered into agreements allowing two or more carriers to share a single wireless network or jointly develop a tower portfolio in certain locations. Such agreements may be viewed by wireless carriers as a superior alternative to renting space for their own antennas on our towers. The proliferation of these roaming, network sharing and joint development agreements may have a material adverse effect on us.  

Consolidation among our customers may result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of sites and have a negative effect on revenues and cash flows.  

Consolidation among our customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of cell sites and impact revenues from our towers. In the last several years, certain of our larger carrier customers have merged, including Cingular Wireless (now known as AT&T) with AT&T Wireless in October 2004 and Sprint with Nextel in August 2005. Any industry consolidation could decrease the demand for our towers, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues and cash flows.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and we may be limited in our ability to refinance our existing debt or use debt to fund future capital needs.  

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $6.1 billion as of February 19, 2008). As a result of our substantial debt, demands on our cash resources are higher than they otherwise would be, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock.  

As a result of our substantial indebtedness:  

   •    We may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions.  

   •    We may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements.  

   •    We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other investments, including capital expenditures.  

   •    We may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry, including as a result of restrictive debt covenants and self-imposed limits on our indebtedness.  

   •    We may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt.  

We anticipate refinancing the majority, if not all, of our debt and preferred stock within the next five years. If our tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (five years from original issuance), then our interest rates substantially increase (by an additional 5% per annum) and monthly principal payments commence. Our mortgage loans have contractual maturities in December 2009 and February 2011. There can be no assurances we will be able to effect this anticipated refinancing on commercially reasonable terms or on terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt and preferred stock. If we are unable to refinance or renegotiate our debt, our debt service requirements may significantly increase in the future.  

In early 2007, a crisis began in the sub prime mortgage sector, as a result of rising delinquencies and credit quality deterioration, and has subsequently spread throughout the credit market. In addition to a lack of liquidity in the general credit markets, the current credit crisis has resulted in a widening of credit spreads in the market place in general and for us specifically. There can be no assurances that this credit crisis will not worsen or impact our availability and cost of debt financing including with respect to any refinancings. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity.”  

A wireless communications industry slowdown may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for our towers and network services) and the business of our customers.  

In past years, the wireless communications industry has periodically experienced significant general slowdowns which negatively affected the factors described in these risk factors, influencing demand for tower space and network services. Similar slowdowns in the future may reduce consumer demand for wireless services or negatively impact the debt and equity markets, thereby causing carriers to delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies.  

As a result of competition in our industry, including from some competitors with significantly more resources or less debt than we have, we may find it more difficult to achieve favorable rental rates on our towers.  

We face competition for site rental customers from various sources, including:  

   •    other national and regional independent tower owners;  

   •    wireless carriers that own and operate their own towers and lease antenna space to other wireless communication companies;  

   •    alternative facilities such as rooftops, broadcast towers and utility poles;  

   •    new alternative deployment methods; and  

   •    site development companies that acquire antenna space on existing towers for wireless carriers and manage new tower construction.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower portfolios are generally substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition for tenants on towers may adversely affect rental rates and revenues.  

New technologies may significantly reduce demand for our towers and negatively impact our revenues.  

Improvements in the efficiency of wireless networks could reduce the demand for our towers. For example, signal combining technologies that permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers, may reduce the need for our towers. In addition, other technologies, such as wireless mesh networks, voice-over-Wi-Fi, femtocells, satellite transmission systems (such as low earth orbiting), and distributed antenna systems, may, in the future, serve as substitutes for or alternatives to leasing that might otherwise be anticipated or expected on our towers had such technologies not existed. Any significant reduction in tower leasing demand resulting from the previously mentioned technologies or other technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  

New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected.  

There can be no assurances that 3G, wireless data services such as e-mail, internet and mobile video, or other new wireless technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner projected by the wireless or broadcast industries. In addition, demand and customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons. As a result, growth opportunities and demand for our towers as a result of such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated.  

If we fail to retain rights to the land under our towers, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our real property interests relating to the land on which our towers reside consist primarily of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses and rights-of-way. A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding titles and other issues prior to completing an acquisition of towers. Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms. Our ability to retain rights to the land on which our towers reside depends on our ability to renegotiate and extend the terms of the ground leases, subleases and licenses relating to the land on which our towers reside or purchase the land on which such towers reside. Approximately 12% of our towers are on land where our property interests in such land have a final expiration date of less than ten years. Our inability to retain rights to the land on which our towers reside may have a material adverse affect on us.  

If we are unable to raise capital in the future when needed, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities.  

We may need additional sources of debt or equity capital in the future to fund strategic growth opportunities. Additional financing may be unavailable, may be prohibitively expensive, or may be restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. Additional sales of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. If we are unable to raise capital when our needs arise, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities.  

FiberTower’s business has certain risk factors different from our core tower business, including an unproven business model, and may produce results that are less than anticipated, resulting in a write-off of all or part of our investment in FiberTower.  

FiberTower has an unproven business model and operates in the new and largely untested market for facilities-based wireless backhaul services. As such, FiberTower is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise and may not be able to operate successfully. FiberTower has generated losses since inception. We anticipate that FiberTower will continue to generate losses for the foreseeable future and may need additional funding to support the development of its business model. Although we believe that there will be demand for backhaul by wireless carriers as the demand for additional wireless minutes of use increases, no assurances can be made that FiberTower will ever generate positive cash flows or that it will produce the results anticipated at the time of our investment. Additional risk factors relating to FiberTower’s business can be found in FiberTower’s filings with the SEC.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

For the quarter ended September 30, 2007, FiberTower recorded an impairment charge of $61.4 million after concluding that the carrying value of its goodwill was impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment charge to earnings of $75.6 million related to the write-down of the value of our investment in FiberTower as a result of a decline in value deemed other-than-temporary. FiberTower’s failure to operate successfully, gain market share or accomplish its strategic objectives could negatively impact FiberTower’s per share price and could require us to record additional write-downs of a portion or all of our investment in FiberTower. The potential future write-downs are limited to the carrying value of this investment of $60.1 million as of December 31, 2007.  

Our lease relating to our Spectrum has certain risk factors different from our core tower business, including that the Spectrum lease may not be renewed or continued, that the option to acquire the Spectrum license may not be exercised, and that the Spectrum may not be deployed, which may result in the revenues derived from the Spectrum being less than those that may otherwise have been anticipated.  

We entered into a lease as lessor relating to the Spectrum rights we acquired in 2003 pursuant to an FCC license. Our Spectrum lease has an initial term for a $13 million annual lease fee beginning July 23, 2007 until October 1, 2013. Upon the expiration of the initial term of the lease, the lessee will have the right to acquire the Spectrum for $130 million (with a consumer price index adjustment from July 2007) or to renew the lease for a period of up to ten years on the same terms, subject to the annual lease fee increasing to $14.3 million. The lessee’s right to renew the lease or acquire the Spectrum following the initial term is subject to FCC license renewal and approval, which may not be obtained. In the event that the lessee defaults on the Spectrum lease, that the option to acquire the Spectrum license or renew the Spectrum lease is not exercised, or that the Spectrum is not deployed, the revenues derived from the Spectrum may be substantially less than anticipated.  

If we fail to comply with laws or regulations which regulate our business and which may change at any time, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business.  

A variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us.  

Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Future sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 19, 2008, we had 281.4 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we reserved (1) 17.1 million shares of common stock for future issuance under our various stock compensation plans, (2) 5.9 million shares of common stock for the conversion of our 4% Convertible Senior Notes, and (3) 8.6 million shares of common stock for the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock.  

A small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. If any one of these stockholders, or any group of our stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large quantity of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline.  

Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand, which reduces the predictability of our results.  

The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results for this activity. In the foreseeable future, network services revenues may decline as a percentage of our total revenues due to our focus on our core rental business, increased competition or other factors.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our towers are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs and revenues.  

The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us.  

Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs and revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.  

Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and operative agreements and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.  

We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include:  

   •    a staggered board of directors;  

   •    a shareholder rights agreement;  

   •    the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and  

   •    advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings.  

Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of our Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.  

In addition, domestic and international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring towers or tower networks in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.  

We may suffer losses due to exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our operations outside the U.S.  

We conduct business in Australia, Canada and U.K., which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenues originated outside the U.S., all of which were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, principally Australian dollars. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our non-U.S. dollar operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.  

Available Information and Certifications  

We maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com/sec.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  

In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available   

13  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corpgoverence.asp, and such information is also available in print to any shareholder who requests it.  

We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on June 15, 2007 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

  Item 2. Properties