ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in North Carolina and South Carolina. Through other wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiaries, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast, and also provides fiber optic and other telecommunications services. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides primarily administrative and management services to SCANA and its subsidiaries.

In December 2014 SCANA entered into agreements to sell its interstate natural gas pipeline and telecommunications subsidiaries. These sales closed in the first quarter of 2015. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

The following percentages reflect net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses (including the holding company) and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

23
Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook

During 2014, economic growth continued to improve in the southeast. Significant industrial announcements were made in the Company’s South Carolina and North Carolina service territories during the year, and announcements made in previous years began to materialize. In addition, the Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic, with container volume up 12% over 2013. The Company also experienced positive residential and commercial customer growth rates in its regulated businesses and steady unemployment rates for areas served by the Company. 

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at its regulated subsidiaries, consisting primarily of capital expenditures for new generating capacity, environmental facilities and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses and taxes. 

Electric Operations

SCE&G's electric operations primarily generates electricity and provides for its transmission, distribution and sale to approximately 688,000 customers (as of December 31, 2014) in portions of South Carolina in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

Operating results are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources.

 Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity in 2014 was 10.25% for non-BLRA rate base, and 11.0% for BLRA-related rate base. To prevent the need for a non-BLRA base rate increase during years of peak nuclear construction, SCE&G has a stated goal of earning a return on equity of 9% or higher. For the year ended December 31, 2014, SCE&G's earned return on equity related to non-BLRA rate base was approximately 10%.

New Nuclear Construction

SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, has contracted with the Consortium for the design and construction of two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear generation units, which SCE&G will jointly own with Santee Cooper. SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%, and under an agreement signed in January 2014, SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in increments coinciding with the commercial operation date of Unit 2 and the first and second anniversaries thereof. The purchase of this additional 5% ownership is expected to be funded by increased cash flows resulting from tax deductibility of depreciation associated with the commercial operation of the New Units. 

The construction of the New Units and SCE&G’s related recovery of financing costs through rates is subject to review and approval by the SCPSC as provided for in the BLRA. As of December 31, 2014, SCE&G’s investment in the New Units totaled $2.7 billion, for which the financing costs on $2.425 billion have been reflected in rates under the BLRA. 

The substantial completion dates currently approved by the SCPSC for Units 2 and 3 are March 15, 2017 and May 15, 2018, with an approved 18-month contingency period beyond each of these dates, and for each of the 146 milestones in the schedule. 

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Consortium began a full re-baselining of the Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules to incorporate a more detailed evaluation of the engineering and procurement activities necessary to accomplish the schedules and to provide a detailed reassessment of the impact of the revised Unit 2 and Unit 3 schedules on engineering and design resource allocations, procurement, construction work crew efficiencies, and other items. The intended result will be a revised fully integrated project schedule with timing of specific construction activities along with detailed information on budget, cost and cash flow requirements. While this detailed re-baselining of construction schedules has not been completed, in August 2014, SCE&G received preliminary information in which the Consortium has indicated that the substantial completion 

24
of Unit 2 was expected to occur in late 2018 or the first half of 2019 and that the substantial completion of Unit 3 may be approximately 12 months later. 

During the third quarter of 2014, the Consortium also provided preliminary cost estimates for Units 2 and 3, principally related to delays for non-firm and non-fixed scopes of work to achieve a late 2018 substantial completion date for Unit 2 and a substantial completion date for Unit 3 approximately 12 months later. SCE&G's 55% portion of this preliminary estimate is approximately $660 million, excluding any owner's cost amounts associated with the delays, which could be $10 million per month for delays beyond the current SCPSC-approved substantial completion dates. This figure is presented in 2007 dollars and would be subject to escalation, which could be material. Further, this figure does not reflect consideration of the liquidated damages provisions of the EPC Contract which would partly mitigate any such delay-related costs. The Consortium's preliminary schedule and the cost estimate information have not been accepted by SCE&G and are under review, and SCE&G cannot predict when a revised schedule and cost estimate will be resolved with the Consortium. 

Since receiving the August 2014 preliminary information, SCE&G has worked with Consortium executive management to evaluate this information. Based upon this evaluation, the Consortium now indicates that the substantial completion date of Unit 2 is expected to occur by June 2019 and that the substantial completion date of Unit 3 may be approximately 12 months later. SCE&G has not, however, accepted the Consortium's contention that the new substantial completion dates are made necessary by delays that are excusable under the EPC Contract. SCE&G is continuing discussions with Consortium executive management in order to identify potential mitigation strategies to possibly accelerate the substantial completion date of Unit 2 to a time earlier in the first half of 2019 or to the end of 2018, with Unit 3 following approximately 12 months later.

As discussed above, the milestone schedule approved by the SCPSC in November 2012 provides for 146 milestone dates, each of which is subject to an 18-month schedule contingency. As of December 31, 2014, 101 milestones have been completed. Three of the remaining milestones have not been or will not be completed within their 18-month contingency periods, and it is anticipated that the completion dates for a number of the other remaining milestone dates will also extend beyond their contingency periods. Further, capital costs (in 2007 dollars) and gross construction cost estimates (including escalation and AFC) are now projected to exceed amounts currently approved by the SCPSC of $4.548 billion and $5.755 billion, respectively. As such, in 2015 SCE&G, as provided for under the BLRA, expects to petition the SCPSC for an order to update the BLRA milestone schedule based on revised substantial completion dates for Units 2 and 3 of June 2019 and June 2020, respectively. In addition, that petition is expected to include certain updated owner's costs and other capital costs, including amounts within the Consortium's preliminary cost estimate which may be the subject of dispute. As such, the petition is not expected to reflect the resolution of the above described negotiations. The BLRA provides that the SCPSC shall grant the petition for modification if the record justifies a finding that the change is not the result of imprudence by SCE&G.

In August 2014, the IRS notified SCE&G that, subject to a national megawatt capacity limitation, the electricity to be produced by each of the New Units (advanced nuclear units, as defined) would qualify for nuclear production tax credits under Section 45J of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent that such New Unit is operational before January 1, 2021 and other eligibility requirements are met. Based on the above substantial completion dates provided by the Consortium of June 2019 and June 2020 for Units 2 and 3, respectively, both New Units are expected to be operational and to qualify for the nuclear production tax credits; however, further delays in the schedule or changes in tax law could impact such conclusions. To the extent that production tax credits are realized, their benefits are expected to be provided directly to SCE&G's electric customers as so realized.

For additional information on these and other matters, see New Nuclear Construction Matters herein and Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental

EPA regulations have a significant impact on the Company's electric operations. In 2014, several regulations were proposed or became final, including the following:

•A revised carbon standard for new power plants was proposed on January 8, 2014, which requires all new fossil fuel-fired power plants to meet the carbon dioxide emissions profile of a combined cycle natural gas plant. This rule effectively prevents construction of new coal-fired plants without carbon capture and sequestration capabilities.

•The Clean Power Plan released on June 2, 2014 would regulate carbon dioxide emissions from existing units. This proposed rule includes state-specific goals for carbon dioxide emissions, as well as guidelines for states to follow in 

25
developing SIPs to achieve those goals. Though it may be revised before becoming final in June 2015, the proposal gives states from one to three years from the date of any final rule to issue SIPs. The SIPs will ultimately define the specific compliance methodology that will be applied to existing units in that state.

•The CWA provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved in connection with the renewal (every five years) of state-issued NPDES permits. The ELG Rule is expected to be finalized by September 30, 2015.

•A final rule became effective October 14, 2014 that modifies requirements for existing cooling water intake structures. The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for this rule. Congress is also expected to consider further amendments to the CWA, and such legislation may include toxicity-based standards, among other things. 

•On November 26, 2014 the EPA announced a proposed tightening of current NAAQS ozone standards from .075 ppm to a range between .065 and .070 ppm, and that it will take comments on a standard as low as .060 ppm. A final rule is expected in October 2015.

•New federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCRs were issued on December 19, 2014 and are expected to take effect in 2015. Under these regulations, CCRs will not be regulated as hazardous waste. These regulations do impose certain requirements on ash storage ponds at SCE&G's and GENCO's generating facilities. SCE&G and GENCO have already closed or have begun the process of closure of all of their ash storage ponds. 

The above environmental initiatives and similar issues are described in Environmental Matters herein and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Unless otherwise noted, the Company cannot predict when regulatory rules or legislative requirements for any of these initiatives will become final, if at all, or what conditions they may impose on the Company, if any. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

Gas Distribution

The local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy purchase, transport and sell natural gas to approximately 859,000 retail customers (as of December 31, 2014) in portions of South Carolina and North Carolina in areas covering 34,600 square miles. Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity of 10.25% for SCE&G and 10.60% for PSNC Energy.

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and will impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. 

The production of shale gas in the United States continues to keep prices for this commodity at historic lows, and such prices are expected to continue at such levels for the foreseeable future. The supply of natural gas from the Marcellus and Utica shale basins in West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio has prompted companies unaffiliated with SCANA to propose a 550-mile pipeline that would bring natural gas from these basins to Virginia and North Carolina. If successful, the completed pipeline should drive economic development along its path, including areas within PSNC Energy's service territory, and should serve to keep natural gas competitively priced in the region.

Retail Gas Marketing

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to approximately 459,000 customers (as of December 31, 2014) throughout Georgia. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents approximately 30% of the customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. This market is mature, resulting in lower margins and stiff competition. Competitors include affiliates of large energy companies as well as electric membership cooperatives, among others. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share primarily depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors 

26
and its ability to provide high levels of customer service. In addition, SCANA Energy's operating results are highly sensitive to weather. 

Approximately 66,000 of SCANA Energy's customers (as of December 31, 2014) are low-income or are unable to obtain natural gas service from other marketers. As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service to these customers at rates approved by the GPSC and receives funding from Georgia's Universal Service Fund to offset some of the resulting bad debt. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC).

SCANA Energy and certain of SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or placed under contract. 

Energy Marketing

The divisions of SEMI, excluding SCANA Energy, market natural gas primarily in the southeast and provide energy-related services to customers. Operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control growth of costs. The price of alternate fuels and customer growth significantly affect demand for natural gas. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Basic earnings per share increased primarily due to the effects of weather, customer growth and base rate increases under the BLRA. Higher electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, dilution from additional shares outstanding and higher interest expense, as further described below.

2013 vs 2012

 Basic earnings per share increased due to higher electric and gas margins. These margin increases were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, dilution from additional shares outstanding and higher interest expense, as further described below.

Diluted earnings per share figures give effect to dilutive potential common stock using the treasury stock method. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

On February 19, 2015, SCANA declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $.545 per share.

As further discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, in December 2014 SCANA announced that it would sell CGT and SCI. These sales closed in January and February 2015, respectively. In aggregate, these subsidiaries contributed basic earnings per share of $.14 in 2014, $.15 in 2013 and $.18 in 2012.

Electric Operations

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

27
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Electric margin increased due to the effects of weather of $43.5 million, base rate increases under the BLRA of $54.1 million and customer growth of $14.7 million. These margin increases were partially offset by $69.0 million of downward adjustments to electric revenues in 2014 pursuant to SCPSC orders related to fuel cost recovery and SCE&G's DSM Programs. In 2013, pursuant to SCPSC orders, electric revenues were adjusted downward by $50.1 million related to fuel cost recovery and the reversal of undercollected amounts related to the Company's pilot eWNA program (eWNA was discontinued effective with the first billing cycle of 2014). Such adjustments are fully offset by the recognition within other income of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts and the application, as a reduction to operation and maintenance expenses, of a portion of SCE&G's storm damage reserve, both of which had been deferred in regulatory accounts. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

2013 vs 2012 Margin increased primarily due to base rate increases under the BLRA of $54.2 million and higher electric base rates of $67.3 million approved in the December 2012 rate order. Additionally, pursuant to accounting orders of the SCPSC, 2013's electric margin reflects downward adjustments of $50.1 million to revenue. Such adjustments are fully offset by the recognition within other income of gains realized upon the settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts, which had been deferred as regulatory liabilities. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

Sales volumes (in GWh) related to the electric margin above, by class, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Retail sales volumes increased primarily due to the effects of weather and customer growth.

2013 vs 2012

 Retail sales volume increased primarily due to customer growth and the effects of weather, partially offset by lower average use. The decrease in wholesale sales is primarily due to the expiration of two customer contracts.

Gas Distribution

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas Distribution sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28
2014 vs 2013 Margin increased primarily due to weather, residential and commercial customer growth of $9.1 million and increased average usage at SCE&G of $2.5 million. 

2013 vs 2012

 Margin increased primarily due to the SCPSC-approved increase in base rates under the RSA which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2012, as well as residential and commercial customer growth and increased industrial usage.

Sales volumes (in MMBTU) by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Total sales volumes increased primarily due to weather and residential and commercial customer growth. Industrial sales volumes decreased primarily due to weather related curtailments and a customer switching to an alternative fuel source. Transportation sales increased due to an increase in natural gas fired generation, partially offset by curtailments. 

2013 vs 2012

 Total sales volumes increased primarily due to customer growth, increased industrial usage and the effects of weather.

Retail Gas Marketing

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy, which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

2014 vs 2013 Changes in operating revenues and net income are due to higher demand in 2014 primarily as a result of weather.

2013 vs 2012

 Changes in operating revenues and net income are due to higher demand in 2013 primarily as a result of milder weather in 2012.

Energy Marketing

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Operating revenues increased due to higher industrial sales volume and higher market prices. Net income decreased due to higher cost to serve customers during periods of pipeline constraints.

2013 vs 2012 Operating revenues and net income increased due to higher industrial sales volume and higher market prices.

29
Other Operating Expenses

Other operating expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs 2013 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily due to higher electric operating expenses of $8.9 million, DSM Programs cost amortization of $2.1 million, higher labor expense of $3.5 million which includes incentive compensation and lower pension costs, storm expenses of $1.1 million and other general expenses of $1.9 million. Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to net plant additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes.

2013 vs 2012

 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased by $16.7 million due to incremental expenses associated with the December 2012 SCPSC rate order and by $5.7 million due to higher electric generation, transmission and distribution expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower compensation costs of $10.1 million due to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation accruals and by other general expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $13.2 million due to the recognition of depreciation expense associated with the Wateree Station scrubber which was provided for in the December 2012 SCPSC rate order and due to other net plant additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes on net property additions. 

Net Periodic Benefit Cost

 Net periodic benefit cost was recorded on the Company's income statements and balance sheets as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

In 2013, pursuant to regulatory orders, SCE&G began recovering current pension expense through a rate rider (for retail electric operations) and through cost of service rates (for gas operations), and began amortizing pension costs previously deferred in regulatory assets over approximately 30 years (for retail electric operations) and approximately 14 years (for gas operations). See further discussion in Note 2 and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts amortized were as follow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30
Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental activities of regulated subsidiaries, the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries, and AFC. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

2014 vs 2013 Other income (expense) increased primarily due to the recognition of $64.0 million of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain interest rate derivative contracts previously recorded as regulatory liabilities pursuant to SCPSC orders previously discussed, compared to $50.1 million of such gains in 2013. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income. 

2013 vs 2012 Changes in other income were primarily due to the recognition, pursuant to SCPSC accounting orders, of $50.1 million of gains realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate derivatives which had been entered into in anticipation of the issuance of long-term debt, which gains had been deferred as regulatory liabilities. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income. This increase in other income was partially offset by the sales of communications towers that were recorded in 2012 by a non-regulated subsidiary. Changes in other expense were not significant.

AFC

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 6.1% of income before income taxes in 2014, 5.8% in 2013 and 5.4% in 2012.

Interest Expense

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest on long-term debt increased in each year primarily due to increased long-term borrowings used to finance nuclear construction, among other things. Other interest expense decreased in 2013, primarily due to reductions in principal balances outstanding on short-term debt over the prior year.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense increased in 2014 over 2013 and in 2013 over 2012 primarily due to increases in income before taxes. The Company's effective tax rate has been favorably impacted by equity AFC and certain tax credits. 

31
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds and additional short- and long-term borrowings. The Company expects that, barring a future impairment of the capital markets, it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, including the cash requirements for nuclear construction and refinancing maturing long-term debt. 

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

The Company obtains equity from SCANA’s stock plans. In 2014, shares of SCANA common stock were acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through the original issuance of shares, rather than being purchased on the open market. This provided approximately $98 million of additional equity during 2014. Due primarily to the availability of proceeds from the sale of two subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2015, the Company began using open market purchases for its stock plans at the end of January 2015. In addition, on March 5, 2013, SCANA settled all forward sales contracts related to its common stock through the issuance of approximately 6.6 million common shares, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $196 million. 

SCANA’s leverage ratio of long- and short-term debt to capital was approximately 57% at December 31, 2014. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to maintain its leverage ratio between 54% and 57%, but SCANA’s ability to do so depends on a number of factors. In the future, if SCANA is not able to maintain its leverage ratio within the desired range, the Company’s debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to capital markets may be limited.

Capital Expenditures

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, net of AFC, were $1.1 billion in 2014. The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for the next three years, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows:

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
Estimated capital expenditures for Nuclear Fuel in 2016 include approximately $53 million, which is SCE&G's share of nuclear fuel it acquired in 2013. This fuel has been recorded in utility plant and the corresponding liability has been recorded in long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet.

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2014 are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2014, contractual cash obligations related to CGT and SCI are excluded from the above table and were not significant. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the sales of CGT and SCI.

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of the New Units at Summer Station. SCE&G expects to be a joint owner and share operating costs and generation output of the New Units, with SCE&G currently responsible for 55 percent of the cost and receiving 55 percent of the output. The estimated $500 million SCE&G expects it will cost to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units is included in other commercial commitments and is further described in New Nuclear Construction Matters.

Purchase obligations include customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty.

Other commercial commitments includes estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Such forward contracts include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Other commercial commitments also includes a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases.

 In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no significant contributions are anticipated for the foreseeable future. Cash payments under the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plan were $9.6 million in 2014, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase to as much as $11.5 million in the future.

In addition, the Company is party to certain NYMEX natural gas futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. At December 31, 2014, the Company had posted $21.2 million in cash collateral for such contracts. In addition, the Company had posted $131.2 million in cash collateral related to interest rate derivative contracts.

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station Unit 1 and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financing Limits and Related Matters

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow.

33
SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, banks, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $200 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2016.

 In October 2014, the Company's existing five-year committed LOCs were extended by one year. At December 31, 2014 SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy were parties to five-year credit agreements in the amounts of $300 million, $1.2 billion, of which $500 million relates to Fuel Company, and $100 million, respectively, which expire in October 2019. In addition, at December 31, 2014 SCE&G was party to a three-year credit agreement in the amount of $200 million which expires in October 2016. These credit agreements are used for general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for each company's commercial paper program and working capital needs and, in the case of Fuel Company, to finance or refinance the purchase of nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels, and emission and other environmental allowances. For a list of banks providing credit support and other information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

On January 29, 2015, SCANA entered into an unsecured, three-month credit agreement in the amount of $150 million. SCANA entered this agreement to ensure sufficient liquidity was available to redeem its Junior Subordinated Notes on February 2, 2015. No borrowings were made under this agreement, and it expired according to its terms on February 6, 2015. 

As of December 31, 2014, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its $1.8 billion credit facilities, had approximately $918 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding, was obligated under $3.3 million in LOC supported letters of credit, and held approximately $137 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. Average short-term borrowings outstanding during 2014 were approximately $515 million. Short-term cash needs were met primarily through the issuance of commercial paper.

At December 31, 2014, the Company’s long-term debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of approximately 19 years and bears an average cost of 5.7%. Substantially all of the Company's long-term debt bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviews its projected capital expenditures and operating costs and adjusts them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service.

The Company’s articles of incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) and PSNC Energy’s note purchase and debenture purchase agreements each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock.

The Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings from hydroelectric projects. At December 31, 2014, approximately $67.7 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock.

SCANA Corporation

SCANA has an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term notes. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its first mortgage bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Bond Ratio was 5.41.

34
Financing Activities

During 2014, net cash inflows related to financing activities totaled approximately $586 million, primarily associated with the issuance of short- and long-term debt and common stock, partially offset by the repayment of long-term debt and payment of dividends. For a description of specific financing activities, see Notes 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

On February 2, 2015, SCANA redeemed prior to maturity $150 million of its 7.70% junior subordinated notes at their face value. 

In May 2014, SCE&G issued $300 million of 4.5% first mortgage bonds due June 1, 2064. Proceeds from this sale were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

Investing Activities

During 2014, the Company paid approximately $95 million to settle interest rate derivative contracts.

The Company paid approximately $6 million, net, through the third quarter of 2013 to settle interest rate derivative contracts upon the issuance of long-term debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company received approximately $120 million upon the settlement of certain interest rate derivatives which had been entered into in anticipation of the issuance of long-term debt. 

For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Major tax incentives included within recent federal legislation resulted in the allowance of 50% bonus depreciation for property placed in service for 2012 and 2013. These incentives, along with certain other deductions, have had a positive impact on the cash flows of the Company. Similar tax incentives for property placed in service for 2014 were implemented after the Company had made estimated tax payments for the 2014 tax year. As a result, these excess payments are expected to have a positive impact on the cash flows of the Company in 2015. 

Ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five years ended December 31, 2014, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the CAA, CWA, Nuclear Waste Act and CERCLA, among others. In many cases, regulations proposed by such authorities could have a significant impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Company often cannot predict what conditions or requirements will be imposed by regulatory or legislative proposals. To the extent that compliance with environmental regulations or legislation results in capital expenditures or operating costs, the Company expects to recover such expenditures and costs through existing ratemaking provisions.

For the three years ended December 31, 2014, the Company's capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at its fossil fuel generating stations totaled $51.8 million. During this same period, the Company expended approximately $31.5 million for the construction and retirement of landfills and ash ponds, net of disposal proceeds. In addition, the Company made expenditures to operate and maintain environmental control equipment at its fossil plants of $9.1 million in 2014, $9.2 million in 2013 and $10.2 million in 2012, which are included in “Other operation and maintenance” expense, and made expenditures to handle waste ash, net of disposal proceeds, of $1.6 million in 2014, $3.2 million in 2013 and $7.9 million in 2012, which are included in “Fuel used in electric generation.” In addition, included within “Other operation and maintenance” expense is an annual amortization of $1.4 million in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012 related to SCE&G's recovery of MGP remediation costs as approved by the SCPSC. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $31.9 million for 2015 and $68.6 million for the four-year period 2016-2019. These expenditures are included in the Company's Estimated Capital 

35
Expenditures table, are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below.

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the NSR provisions and the NSPS of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the DOJ, on behalf of the EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis for these actions is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. Though the Company cannot predict what action, if any, the EPA will initiate against it, any costs incurred are expected to be recoverable through rates.

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving other potential physical impacts. Other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also materialize. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive.

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include the impact of possible changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and the resultant potential damage to the Company's electric system, as well as impacts on employees and customers and on the Company's supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties. As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams who receive ongoing training and related simulations in advance of such storms, all in order to allow the Company to protect its assets and to return its systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event.

Environmental commitments and contingencies are further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

REGULATORY MATTERS

SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the following entities for the matters noted.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
PSNC EnergyThe NCUC as to gas rates, service, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters, and the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities.

SCE&G and PSNC EnergyThe PHMSA and the DOT as to integrity management requirements for gas distribution pipeline systems and natural gas transmission systems, respectively.

SCANA EnergyThe GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically as to retail prices for customers served under its regulated provider contract.

Material retail rate proceedings are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the RSA allows natural gas distribution companies in South Carolina to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations.

Utility Regulation

SCANA’s regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, in the event of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities, and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Operations and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities.

37
The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs would be necessary and, if they were, the extent to which they would affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers for which they have not yet been billed. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $186.4 million at December 31, 2014 and $183.1 million at December 31, 2013, compared to total revenues of $5.0 billion and $4.5 billion for the years 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Nuclear Decommissioning

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years into the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers).

Based on a decommissioning cost study, SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station Unit 1, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $696.8 million, stated in 2012 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station Unit 1. The cost estimate assumes that upon closure the site would be maintained for 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use.

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds and interest thereon, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures for Summer Station Unit 1 on an after-tax basis.

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Company accrues for the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The Company recognizes obligations at present value in the period in which they are incurred, and capitalizes associated asset retirement costs as a part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, their recognition has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, the Company has recorded AROs of $201 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and AROs of $362 million for other conditional obligations primarily related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments may be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the utilities remains in place.

38
Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability and changes in funded status as a component of net periodic benefit cost or other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions that impact pension cost, of which the discount rate and the expected return on assets are the most sensitive. Net pension cost of $2.6 million recorded in 2014 reflects the use of a 5.03% discount rate derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 8.0% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension cost amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate in 2014 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.6 million and increased the pension obligation by $0.8 million. Further, had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 7.75%, the Company’s pension cost for 2014 would have increased by $2.1 million.

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted.

The Company determines the fair value of a large majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes or derives them from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. Less than 10% of assets are valued using less transparent Level 3 methods.

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2014, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 6.4%, 6.0%, 8.3% and 9.3%, respectively. The 2014 expected long-term rate of return of 8.00% was based on a target asset allocation of 58% with equity managers, 33% with fixed income managers and 9% with hedge fund managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. As of the beginning of 2015, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 6.0%, 5.4%, 8.7% and 8.8%, respectively. For 2015, the expected rate of return is 7.50%.

Pursuant to regulatory orders, certain previously deferred pension costs are being amortized as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Current pension expense for electric operations is being recovered through a pension cost rider, and current pension expense related to SCE&G's gas operations is being recovered through cost of service rates.

Pension benefits are not offered to employees hired or rehired after December 31, 2013, and pension benefits for existing participants will no longer accrue for services performed or compensation earned after December 31, 2023. As a result, the significance of pension costs and the criticality of the related estimates to the Company's financial statements will continue to diminish. Further, the pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and management does not anticipate the need to make significant pension contributions for the foreseeable future.

In October 2014 the Society of Actuaries' Retirement Plans Experience Committee published a new RP-2014 mortality table and the related MP-2014 mortality improvement scale, which SCANA adopted effective December 31, 2014. The improvements in life expectancy and the projected rate of continued improvement increased postretirement benefit obligations measured at December 31, 2014, and the net periodic benefit cost to be recognized in 2015. Had SCANA not adopted this new mortality table and mortality improvement scale, the net periodic benefit cost to be recognized in 2015 would have been approximately $3.6 million and $0.2 million lower for pension and other postretirement benefit plans, respectively, and the benefit obligations would have been approximately $26.3 million and $2.7 million lower for pension and other postretirement benefit plans, respectively.

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plan in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 5.19%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost of $16.9 million for 2014. Had the selected discount rate been 4.94% (25 basis points lower than the discount rate referenced above), the expense for 2014 would have been $0.6 million higher and the obligation would have been $0.2 million. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, and because employees hired after December 31, 2010 are responsible for the full cost of retiree medical benefits elected by them, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

NEW NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION MATTERS

In 2008, SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, contracted with the Consortium for the design and construction of the New Units at the site of Summer Station. 

SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%. As discussed below, under an agreement signed in January 2014 (and subject to customary closing conditions, including necessary regulatory approvals), SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units from Santee Cooper. 

EPC Contract and BLRA Matters

The construction of the New Units and SCE&G’s related recovery of financing costs through rates is subject to review and approval by the SCPSC as provided for in the BLRA. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC has approved, among other things, a milestone schedule and a capital costs estimates schedule for the New Units. This approval constitutes a final and binding determination that the New Units are used and useful for utility purposes, and that the capital costs associated with the New Units are prudent utility costs and expenses and are properly included in rates, so long as the New Units are constructed or are being constructed within the parameters of the approved milestone schedule, including specified contingencies, and the approved capital costs estimates schedule. Subject to the same conditions, the BLRA provides that SCE&G may apply to the SCPSC annually for an order to recover through revised rates SCE&G’s weighted average cost of capital applied to all or part of the outstanding balance of construction work in progress concerning the New Units. Such annual rate changes are described in Note 2. As of December 31, 2014, SCE&G’s investment in the New Units totaled $2.7 billion, for which the financing costs on $2.425 billion have been reflected in rates under the BLRA. 

The SCPSC granted initial approval of the construction schedule, including 146 milestones within that schedule, and related forecasted capital costs in 2009. The NRC issued COLs in March 2012. In November 2012, the SCPSC approved an updated milestone schedule and additional updated capital costs for the New Units. In addition, the SCPSC approved revised substantial completion dates for the New Units based on that March 2012 issuance of the COL and the amounts agreed upon by SCE&G and the Consortium in July 2012 to resolve known claims by the Consortium for costs related to COL delays, design modifications of the shield building and certain prefabricated structural modules for the New Units and unanticipated rock conditions at the site. In December 2012, the SCPSC denied separate petitions filed by two parties requesting reconsideration of its order. On October 22, 2014, the South Carolina Supreme Court affirmed the SCPSC's order on appeal.

The substantial completion dates currently approved by the SCPSC for Units 2 and 3 are March 15, 2017 and May 15, 2018. The SCPSC also approved an 18-month contingency period beyond each of these dates, and for each of the 146 milestones in the schedule. 

Since the settlement of delay-related claims in 2012, the Consortium has continued to experience delays in the schedule for fabrication and delivery of sub-modules for the New Units. The fabrication and delivery of sub-modules have been and remain focus areas of the Consortium, including sub-modules for module CA20, which is part of the auxiliary building, and CA01, which houses components inside the containment vessel. Modules CA20 and CA01, as well as shield building modules, are considered critical path items for both New Units. CA20 was placed on the nuclear island of Unit 2 in May 2014. The delivery schedule of sub-modules for CA01 is expected to support completion of on-site fabrication to allow it to be ready for placement on the nuclear island of Unit 2 during the first half of 2015.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Consortium began a full re-baselining of the Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules to incorporate a more detailed evaluation of the engineering and procurement activities necessary to accomplish the schedules and to provide a detailed reassessment of the impact of the revised Unit 2 and Unit 3 schedules on engineering and design resource allocations, procurement, construction work crew efficiencies, and other items. The intended result will be a revised fully integrated project schedule with timing of specific construction activities along with detailed information on budget, cost and cash flow requirements. While this detailed re-baselining of construction schedules has not been completed, in August 2014, SCE&G received preliminary information in which the Consortium has indicated that the substantial completion of Unit 2 was expected to occur in late 2018 or the first half of 2019 and that the substantial completion of Unit 3 may be approximately 12 months later. 

During the third quarter of 2014, the Consortium also provided preliminary cost estimates for Units 2 and 3, principally related to delays for non-firm and non-fixed scopes of work to achieve a late 2018 substantial completion date for Unit 2 and a substantial completion date for Unit 3 approximately 12 months later. SCE&G's 55% portion of this preliminary estimate is approximately $660 million, excluding any owner's cost amounts associated with the delays, which could be $10 million per month for delays beyond the current SCPSC-approved substantial completion dates. This figure is presented in 

39
2007 dollars and would be subject to escalation, which could be material. Further, this figure does not reflect consideration of the liquidated damages provisions of the EPC Contract which would partly mitigate any such delay-related costs. The Consortium's preliminary schedule and the cost estimate information have not been accepted by SCE&G and are under review, and SCE&G cannot predict when a revised schedule and cost estimate will be resolved with the Consortium. 

Since receiving the August 2014 preliminary information, SCE&G has worked with Consortium executive management to evaluate this information. Based upon this evaluation, the Consortium now indicates that the substantial completion date of Unit 2 is expected to occur by June 2019 and that the substantial completion date of Unit 3 may be approximately 12 months later. SCE&G has not, however, accepted the Consortium's contention that the new substantial completion dates are made necessary by delays that are excusable under the EPC Contract. SCE&G is continuing discussions with Consortium executive management in order to identify potential mitigation strategies to possibly accelerate the substantial completion date of Unit 2 to a time earlier in the first half of 2019 or to the end of 2018, with Unit 3 following approximately 12 months later.

As discussed above, the milestone schedule approved by the SCPSC in November 2012 provides for 146 milestone dates, each of which is subject to an 18-month schedule contingency. As of December 31, 2014, 101 milestones have been completed. Three of the remaining milestones have not been or will not be completed within their 18-month contingency periods, and it is anticipated that the completion dates for a number of the other remaining milestone dates will also extend beyond their contingency periods. Further, capital costs (in 2007 dollars) and gross construction cost estimates (including escalation and AFC) are now projected to exceed amounts currently approved by the SCPSC of $4.548 billion and $5.755 billion, respectively. As such, in 2015 SCE&G, as provided for under the BLRA, expects to petition the SCPSC for an order to update the BLRA milestone schedule based on revised substantial completion dates for Units 2 and 3 of June 2019 and June 2020, respectively. In addition, that petition is expected to include certain updated owner's costs and other capital costs, including amounts within the Consortium's preliminary cost estimate which may be the subject of dispute. As such, the petition is not expected to reflect the resolution of the above described negotiations. The BLRA provides that the SCPSC shall grant the petition for modification if the record justifies a finding that the change is not the result of imprudence by SCE&G.

Additional claims by the Consortium or SCE&G involving the project schedule and budget may arise as the project continues. The parties to the EPC Contract have established both informal and formal dispute resolution procedures in order to resolve such issues. SCE&G expects to resolve all disputes (including any ultimate disagreements involving the preliminary cost estimates provided by the Consortium in the third quarter of 2014) through both the informal and formal procedures and anticipates that any costs that arise through such dispute resolution processes, as well as other costs identified from time to time, will be recoverable through rates.

Santee Cooper Matters

As noted above, SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units from Santee Cooper. Under the terms of this agreement, SCE&G will acquire a 1% ownership interest in the New Units at the commercial operation date of Unit 2, will acquire an additional 2% ownership interest no later than the first anniversary of such commercial operation date, and will acquire the final 2% no later than the second anniversary of such commercial operation date. SCE&G has agreed to pay an amount equal to Santee Cooper's actual cost of the percentage conveyed as of the date of each conveyance. In addition, the agreement provides that Santee Cooper will not transfer any of its remaining interest in the New Units to third parties until the New Units are complete. This transaction will not affect the payment obligations between the parties during construction for the New Units, nor is it anticipated that the payments for the additional ownership interest would be reflected in a revised rates filing under the BLRA. Based on the current milestone schedule and capital costs schedule approved by the SCPSC in November 2012, SCE&G’s estimated cost would be approximately $500 million for the additional 5% interest being acquired from Santee Cooper. This cost figure could be higher in light of the delays and related costs discussed above.

Nuclear Production Tax Credits

In August 2014, the IRS notified SCE&G that, subject to a national megawatt capacity limitation, the electricity to be produced by each of the New Units (advanced nuclear units, as defined) would qualify for nuclear production tax credits under Section 45J of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent that such New Unit is operational before January 1, 2021 and other eligibility requirements are met. Based on the above substantial completion dates provided by the Consortium of June 2019 and June 2020 for Units 2 and 3, respectively, both New Units are expected to be operational and to qualify for the nuclear production tax credits; however, further delays in the schedule or changes in tax law could impact such conclusions. To the extent that production tax credits are realized, their benefits are expected to be provided directly to SCE&G's electric customers as so realized.

40
Other Project Matters

When the NRC issued the COLs for the New Units, two of the conditions that it imposed were requiring inspection and testing of certain components of the New Units' passive cooling system, and requiring the development of strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at the New Units. In addition, the NRC directed the Office of New Reactors to issue to SCE&G an order requiring enhanced, reliable spent fuel pool instrumentation, as well as a request for information related to emergency plant staffing. SCE&G fulfilled the request related to emergency plant staffing in 2012. In addition, SCE&G prepared and submitted an integrated response plan for the New Units to the NRC in August 2013. That plan is currently under review by the NRC and SCE&G does not anticipate any additional regulatory actions as a result of that review, but it cannot predict future regulatory activities or how such initiatives would impact construction or operation of the New Units.

OTHER MATTERS

Financial Regulatory Reform

Dodd-Frank provides for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and requires numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement. The Company has determined that it meets the end-user exception in Dodd-Frank, with the lowest level of required regulatory reporting burden imposed by this law. The Company is currently complying with these enacted regulations and intends to comply with regulations enacted in the future, but cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

SCANA holds insignificant investments in securities and business ventures. SCANA does not engage in significant off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, vehicles, equipment and rail cars.

Claims and Litigation

For a description of claims and litigation see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK