PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INVESTOR INFORMATION

SCANA’s and SCE&G’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA’s internet website at www.scana.com (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on SCANA’s website is not a part of this report or any other report or document that SCANA or SCE&G files with or furnishes to the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished.

SCANA and SCE&G post information from time to time regarding developments relating to SCE&G’s new nuclear project and other matters of interest to investors on SCANA’s website. On SCANA’s homepage, there is a yellow box containing links to the Nuclear Development and Other Investor Information sections of the website. The Nuclear Development section contains a yellow box with a link to project news and updates. The Other Investor Information section of the website contains a link to recent investor related information that cannot be found at other areas of the website. Some of the information that will be posted from time to time, including the quarterly reports that SCE&G submits to the SCPSC and the ORS in connection with the new nuclear project, may be deemed to be material information that has not otherwise become public. Investors, media and other interested persons are encouraged to review this information and can sign up, under the Investor Relations Section of the website, for an email alert when there is a new posting in the Nuclear Development and Other Investor Information yellow box. 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2015 and 2014 of 5,886 and 5,989, respectively. SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties, but it holds directly all of the capital stock of its subsidiaries except as described below, each of which is incorporated in South Carolina.

Regulated Utilities

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 688,000 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 338,000 customers (each as of December 31, 2014). SCE&G’s business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G’s electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 17,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 36 counties in South Carolina and covers approximately 23,000 square miles. More than 3.3 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include chemicals, educational services, paper products, food products, lumber and wood products, health services, textile manufacturing, rubber and miscellaneous plastic products and fabricated metal products.

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity, pursuant to a FERC-approved tariff, solely to SCE&G under the terms of a power purchase agreement and related operating agreement. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission allowances.

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 521,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2014). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering approximately 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The predominant industries served by PSNC Energy include educational services, food products, health services, automotive, chemicals, non-woven textiles, electrical generation and construction.

CGT operates as an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by FERC. CGT operates in southeastern Georgia and in South Carolina and has interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia and with Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. CGT also has interconnections with Southern Natural in Aiken County, South Carolina, and with Transco in Cherokee and Spartanburg counties, South Carolina. CGT’s customers include SCE&G (which uses natural gas for electricity generation and for gas distribution to retail customers), SEMI (which markets natural gas to industrial and sale for resale customers, primarily in the Southeast), municipalities, county gas 

5
authorities, federal and state agencies, marketers, power generators and industrial customers primarily engaged in the manufacturing or processing of ceramics, paper, metal, and textiles. In December 2014, SCANA announced that CGT would be sold to Dominion Resources, Inc. The sale closed at the end of January 2015. 

Nonregulated Businesses

SEMI markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to approximately 459,000 customers (as of December 31, 2014, and includes approximately 66,000 customers in its regulated division) in Georgia’s natural gas market. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.6 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in Georgia.

SCI owns and operates a fiber optic telecommunications network, ethernet network and data center facilities in South Carolina, and through a joint venture, SCI has an additional interest in fiber in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. SCI also provides tower site construction, management and rental services and sells towers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Tennessee. SCI leases fiber optic capacity, data center space and tower space to certain affiliates at market rates. In December 2014, SCANA announced that SCI would be sold to Spirit Communications. The sale closed in February 2015. 

SCANA Services, Inc. provides primarily administrative and management services to SCANA's other subsidiaries.

In addition, SCANA owns two insignificant energy-related companies that are being liquidated.

For information with respect to major segments of business, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 12). All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

COMPETITION

For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

ELECTRIC OPERATIONS

Electric Sales

SCE&G’s sales of electricity and margins earned from those sales by customer classification as percentages of electric revenues were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for resale include sales to three municipalities and one electric cooperative. Short-term system sales were not significant for any period presented.

During 2014 SCE&G experienced a net increase of approximately 10,000 electric customers (growth rate of 1.4%), increasing its total electric customers to approximately 688,000 at year end.

6
For the period 2015-2017, SCE&G projects total territorial kWh sales of electricity to increase 1.1% annually (assuming normal weather), total retail sales growth of 1.1% annually (assuming normal weather), total electric customer base to increase 1.8% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to increase 1.9% annually. SCE&G projects a retail kWh sales decrease of approximately 3.0% and customer growth of 1.4% from 2014 to 2015. SCE&G’s goal is to maintain a planning reserve margin of between 14% and 20%; however, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall below the reserve margin goal. 

Electric Interconnections

SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO’s Williams Station under a Unit Power Sales Agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 605 MW.

SCE&G’s transmission system, which extends over a large part of the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina, interconnects with Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, Duke Energy Progress, Inc., Santee Cooper, Georgia Power Company and the Southeastern Power Administration’s Clarks Hill (Thurmond) Project. SCE&G is a member of VACAR, one of several geographic divisions within the SERC. SERC is one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards approved by FERC. SERC is divided geographically into five diverse sub-regions that are identified as Central, Delta, Gateway, Southeastern and VACAR. The regional entities and all members of NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America. For a discussion of the impact certain legislative and regulatory initiatives may have on SCE&G’s transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply

The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sources and percentages of total MWh generation by each category of fuel for the preceding three years and estimates for the next three years follow: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2014, the Company used coal to generate electricity at five fossil fuel-fired plants, including its cogeneration facility located in Charleston, South Carolina. Unit trains and, in some cases, trucks and barges delivered coal to these plants. SCE&G intends to retire the coal-fired generating units at one of these plants by 2020, subject to future developments in environmental regulations, among other matters. See Item 2. PROPERTIES.

7
 Coal is primarily obtained through long-term supply contracts. Long-term contracts exist with suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 3.0 million tons annually. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from .75% to 1.6%. These contracts expire at various times through 2016. Spot market purchases may occur when needed or when prices are believed to be favorable.

SCANA and SCE&G believe that SCE&G’s operations comply with all applicable regulations relating to the discharge of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G, for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, and Westinghouse are parties to a fuel alliance agreement and contracts for fuel fabrication and related services. Under these contracts, SCE&G has to supply enriched product to Westinghouse and Westinghouse will supply nuclear fuel assemblies for Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units. Westinghouse will be SCE&G’s exclusive provider of such fuel assemblies on a cost-plus basis. The fuel assemblies to be delivered under the contracts are expected to supply the nuclear fuel requirements of Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units through 2033. SCE&G is dependent upon Westinghouse for providing fuel assemblies for the new AP1000 reactors in the New Units in the current and anticipated future absence of other commercially viable sources. 

In addition, SCE&G has contracts covering its nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services and enrichment services. These contracts have varying expiration dates through 2024. SCE&G believes that it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services and that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of its nuclear generating units.

SCE&G can store spent nuclear fuel on-site until at least 2017 and is constructing a dry cask storage facility to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Summer Station Unit 1. SCE&G may evaluate other technology as it becomes available. In addition, Summer Station Unit 1 has sufficient on-site storage capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the DOE regarding disposal of spent fuel, see the Environmental section of Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements of SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G also uses long-term power purchase agreements to ensure that adequate power supply resources are in place to meet load obligations and reserve requirements. As of December 31, 2014, SCE&G had such agreements in place for 300 MW of capacity.

GAS OPERATIONS

Gas Sales-Regulated

Regulated sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the period 2015-2017, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 1.6% annually (excluding transportation and assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 2.5%, commercial of 1.0% and industrial of 0.5%.

For the period 2015-2017, SCE&G projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 1.2% annually (excluding transportation and assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 2.5%, commercial of 0.6% and industrial of 0.7%.

8
For the period 2015-2017, SCANA’s and SCE&G’s total consolidated regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase annually 2.4% and 2.3%, respectively. During 2014 SCANA recorded a net increase of approximately 22,000 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 2.6%), increasing its regulated gas customers to approximately 859,000. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 9,000 gas customers (growth rate of 2.8%), increasing its total gas customers to approximately 338,000 (as of December 31, 2014).

Demand for gas changes primarily due to weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels.

Gas Cost, Supply and Curtailment Plans

 SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers in both the spot and long-term markets. The gas is delivered to South Carolina through firm transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2018), Transco (expiring in 2017 and 2018) and CGT (expiring in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2023 and 2026). The maximum daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts is 212,194 MMBTU from Southern Natural, 64,652 MMBTU from Transco and 431,229 MMBTU from CGT. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered to SCE&G’s system as capacity is available through interruptible transportation.

The daily volume of gas that SEMI is entitled to transport under service agreements with CGT (expiring in 2016, 2017 and 2023) on a firm basis is 82,615 MMBTU.

SCE&G purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $5.94 per MMBTU during 2014 and $5.27 per MMBTU during 2013.

SCE&G was allocated 5,502,600 MMBTU of natural gas storage capacity on the systems of Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 4,657,900 MMBTU of gas were in storage on December 31, 2014. To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG liquefaction and storage facilities. The LNG plants are capable of storing the liquefied equivalent of 1,964,600 MMBTU of natural gas. Approximately 1,844,800 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage on December 31, 2014.

PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at market based prices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at first of the month index prices plus a reservation charge in certain cases. Transco transports natural gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with varying expiration dates through 2032. On a peak day, PSNC Energy is capable of receiving daily transportation volumes of natural gas under these contracts, utilizing firm contracts of 610,062 MMBTU from Transco.

PSNC Energy purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $5.67 per MMBTU during 2014 compared to $5.13 per MMBTU during 2013.

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion Transmission, Inc., Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 13,000,000 MMBTU. Approximately 11,000,000 MMBTU of gas were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2014. In addition, PSNC Energy’s LNG facility can store the liquefied equivalent of 1,000,000 MMBTU of natural gas with regasification capability of approximately 100,000 MMBTU per day. Approximately 900,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2014. LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG provide for 1,300,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 1,100,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2014.

SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth.

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated

SEMI markets natural gas and provides energy-related services primarily in the Southeast. In addition, SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to approximately 459,000 customers (as of December 31, 2014) in Georgia’s natural gas market. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximate 30% share of the approximately 

9
1.6 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.

Risk Management

For a discussion of risk management policies and procedures, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

REGULATION

Regulatory jurisdictions to which SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject are described in the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, bankers, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $200 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2016.

SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* SCE&G presently operates the Saluda hydroelectric project under an annual license while its long-term re-licensing application is being reviewed by FERC.

At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, or may issue a license to another applicant, or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages.

RATE MATTERS

For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures

The SCPSC’s fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G’s retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any over-collection or under-collection from the preceding 12-month period. The statutory definition of fuel costs includes certain variable environmental costs, such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and particulates. In 2014, the South Carolina General Assembly amended the statutory definition of fuel cost thereby allowing electric utilities to recover avoided costs under the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act of 1978. The South Carolina General Assembly further amended the fuel cost statute to allow for the recovery of costs incurred as a result of offering distributed energy resource programs and net metering to its customers as a separate component of the overall fuel factor. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding concerning its fuel costs at any time. 

10
Fuel cost recovery procedures related to the natural gas operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy along with related rate proceedings by the SCPSC and NCUC are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of any new or pending regulations or standards upon existing operations cannot be predicted. For a discussion of how these regulations and standards may impact SCANA and SCE&G (including capital expenditures necessitated thereby), see the Environmental Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

OTHER MATTERS

Insurance coverage for SCE&G's nuclear units is described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS