PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics, medical imaging systems and surgical products dedicated to the healthcare needs of women. Our core business segments are focused on Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health.  

Our Breast Health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, magnetic resonance imaging (“MRI”) breast coils, computer-aided detection (“CAD”) for mammography and MRI, minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. We have also developed a new breast imaging platform, Dimensions, which utilizes a new technology, tomosynthesis, to produce three dimensional (“3D”) images, as well as conventional two dimensional (“2D”) full field digital mammography images. In the U.S., our Dimensions product had previously been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for providing conventional 2D images. On February 11, 2011, we received approval from the FDA to enable the 3D tomosynthesis capability of our Dimensions system. The FDA granted approval for the use of 3D tomosynthesis in addition to a conventional 2D digital image. Our clinical results for the approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics. We began to sell our Dimensions 3D tomosynthesis system in the United States immediately following FDA approval. We had been selling Dimensions 3D tomosynthesis outside of the United States in regions such as Canada, Europe, Latin America and Asia.  

In July 2011, we completed our acquisition of Beijing Healthcome Technology Company, Ltd. (“Healthcome”), a privately-held manufacturer of medical equipment, including mammography equipment, located in Beijing, China. Healthcome develops and manufactures analog mammography products targeted to lower tier hospital segments in China.  

Our Diagnostics products include the ThinPrep System, which is primarily used in cytology applications such as cervical cancer screening, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, which assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth, and our molecular diagnostic reagents used for a variety of DNA and RNA analysis applications based on our proprietary Invader chemistry. Our current molecular diagnostic offerings based upon this Invader chemistry include Cervista HPV high risk (“HR”) and Cervista HPV 16/18 products to assist in the diagnosis of human papillomavirus (“HPV”), as well as other products to diagnose cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases.  

In June 2011, we acquired TCT International Co., Ltd. (“TCT”) and subsidiaries, a privately-held distributor of medical products, including our ThinPrep Pap Test, related instruments and other diagnostic and surgical products. TCT’s operating subsidiaries are located in Beijing, China. Our acquisition of TCT provides us with an established nationwide sales organization and customer support infrastructure in China. TCT is primarily reported within our Diagnostics segment and to a lesser extent within our GYN Surgical segment.  

Our GYN Surgical products include the NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, the MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, and the Adiana Permanent Contraception System. The NovaSure system is a minimally invasive procedure for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids and polyps within the uterus. The MyoSure system was added to the GYN Surgical product portfolio as a result of our acquisition of Interlace Medical, Inc. (“Interlace”) on January 6, 2011. The Adiana system is a form of permanent female contraception intended as an alternative to tubal ligation.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Our Skeletal Health products include dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, and our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging products.  

We were incorporated in Massachusetts in October 1985 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 1990. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and each of its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Trademark Notice  

Hologic is a trademark of Hologic, Inc. Other trademarks, logos, and slogans registered or used by Hologic and its divisions and subsidiaries in the United States and other countries include, but are not limited to, the following:  

Adiana, Affirm, ATEC, Celero, Cervista, Dimensions, Eviva, Fluoroscan, Invader, LORAD, MammoPad, MammoSite, MultiCare, MyoSure, NovaSure, PreservCyt, QDR, Rapid fFN, Sahara, SecurView, Selenia, Sentinelle, Suresound, StereoLoc, ThinPrep, THS, TCT, TLI IQ, and Trident.  

Available Information  

Our Internet website address is http://www.hologic.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.  

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding Hologic and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website address is http://www.sec.gov.  

Products  

We view our operations and manage our business in four principal reporting segments: Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Financial information concerning these segments is provided in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Breast Health Products  

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, MRI breast coils, CAD for mammography and MRI, minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. We have also developed a new breast imaging platform, Dimensions, which utilizes a new technology, tomosynthesis, to produce 3D images.  

Selenia Full Field Digital Mammography System  

The Selenia full field digital mammography system is based on our proprietary DirectRay digital detector, which preserves image quality by using a compound known as amorphous selenium to directly convert x-rays to electronic signals. Many other digital technologies employ an indirect two-step process by first converting x-ray  

4  

Table of Contents 

 energy into light and then converting the light energy into electrical signals. We believe that digital x-ray imaging technologies that require light conversion may compromise image resolution, lessening detection capability. Our DirectRay flat panel detector technology employs an amorphous selenium photoconductor to directly convert x-ray photons into an electrical signal. No intensifying screens or additional processes are required to capture and convert the x-ray energy, enabling high imaging resolution and contrast sensitivity.  

The Selenia product family has a number of other features designed to improve image quality and patient throughput. The open architecture of the system’s design provides for full integration with existing enterprise Picture Archiving and Communications Systems (“PACS”) and Radiology Information Systems (“RIS”). The Selenia product family includes the Selenia base configuration, the Selenia S configuration (a screening-only configuration), the Selenia Value (a lower cost alternative to the Selenia base configuration) and the Selenia Encore (refurbished units), each of which offer customers varying performance capabilities and product costs.  

Breast Tomosynthesis  

Our Dimensions platform includes a mammography gantry incorporating our DirectRay digital detector capable of performing both 2D and 3D image acquisition and display. When operating in 3D mode, the system acquires a series of low dose x-ray images taken in a scanning motion at various angles. The images are mathematically processed into a series of small slices, revealing breast tissue from a 3D perspective. We believe that by allowing the clinician to review breast tissue in three dimensional space, the more subtle architecture of various types of suspicious lesions may be able to be better interpreted, which may ultimately increase cancer detection and reduce unnecessary patient callbacks. In the U.S., our Dimensions product had previously been approved by the FDA for providing conventional 2D images. On February 11, 2011, we received approval from the FDA to enable the 3D tomosynthesis capability of our Dimensions system. The FDA granted approval for the use of 3D tomosynthesis in addition to a conventional 2D digital image. Our clinical results for the approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics.  

Healthcome Mammography Products  

In July 2011, we completed our acquisition of Beijing Healthcome Technology Company, Ltd., a privately-held manufacturer of medical equipment located in Beijing, China. Healthcome manufactures analog mammography products targeted to lower tier hospital segments in China. Additionally, Healthcome had been collaborating with our research and development team to integrate our DirectRay digital detector with the Healthcome mammography platform. This new digital product is being locally designed and sourced to meet the performance and pricing requirements of the mid-tier hospital market segment. This new digital product will require local regulatory approval. We submitted the regulatory package requesting this approval in fiscal 2011; however, we cannot assure that we can complete the development of this new product on a timely basis if at all, or if developed, it will be commercially successful.  

Screen-Film Mammography Systems  

Our screen-film mammography systems include our LORAD M-IV and M-IV Platinum systems. These systems are less expensive than our digital systems and further offer customers varying performance capabilities and product costs.  

SecurView Workstation  

The images captured by digital mammography systems are typically transmitted electronically for review by a radiologist at a work station. To this end, we developed the SecurViewDX breast imaging softcopy workstation, approved for interpretation of digital mammograms from most vendors as well as images from other diagnostic breast modalities. To complement this product, we also developed the SecurViewRT workstation, a technologist workstation enabling bi-directional exchange of electronic communications between the reviewer and the technologist.  

5  

Table of Contents 

CAD (Computer Aided Detection) Systems  

We have developed CAD software tools for our mammography and MRI products. Mammography CAD is used by radiologists as “a second pair of eyes” when reading a woman’s mammogram. Use of this technology provides reviewers with the potential to detect findings that might otherwise be overlooked during the review process, thus increasing cancer detection. We have integrated our mammography applications CAD software tools into our line of multi-modality breast imaging workstations. We also market an MRI CAD product, which manages the data set from an MRI procedure, designed to improve data workflow for the physician and provide analytical tools to aid in the identification and evaluation of the extent of disease.  

Stereotactic Breast Biopsy Systems  

We provide clinicians with the flexibility of choosing upright or prone systems for breast biopsy by offering three minimally invasive stereotactic breast biopsy guidance systems, the MultiCare Platinum dedicated, prone breast biopsy table, the StereoLoc II upright attachment, and the Affirm upright attachment. The StereoLoc II attachment is used in conjunction with our M-IV series of screen-film mammography systems and our Selenia full field digital mammography systems. The Affirm upright attachment is employed with our Dimensions systems. These breast biopsy systems provide an alternative to open surgical biopsy, and can be performed as an outpatient procedure under local anesthesia, allowing shorter recovery times.  

Breast Biopsy Products  

We offer a wide range of minimally invasive products for breast biopsy and biopsy site marking. Our breast biopsy portfolio includes two types of tethered breast biopsy product, the ATEC (Automated Tissue Excision Collection) and Eviva devices. Each tethered device is a disposable biopsy tool that is powered by a console and utilizes our patented fluid management system. The ATEC vacuum-assisted breast biopsy device can be used under all standard imaging guidance modalities (stereotactic x-ray, ultrasound, MRI and molecular breast imaging) whereas our Eviva vacuum-assisted breast biopsy device is used exclusively under stereotactic x-ray guidance. In addition to ATEC and Eviva products, we also offer the Celero device, a non-tethered, vacuum-assisted, spring-loaded, disposable core biopsy device which is used exclusively under ultrasound-guidance. All of our breast biopsy devices have been designed to accommodate a broad spectrum of patients as well as hard-to-reach lesions in the axilla, near the chest wall, near implants or behind the nipple.  

Breast Brachytherapy Products  

The MammoSite Radiation Therapy System is a breast brachytherapy technology that offers accelerated partial breast irradiation (“APBI”) therapy to treat breast cancer. A MammoSite balloon, which is inserted into the surgical cavity remaining after a lumpectomy, delivers a 5-day course of concentrated radiation to the tissue most likely to contain residual cancerous cells following surgery, while reducing radiation exposure to adjacent healthy tissue. We introduced our multi-lumen device, the MammoSite ML radiation therapy system, in the fourth quarter of 2009. The MammoSite ML system allows radiation oncologists to shape the radiation dose for typical cases and treat patients who are otherwise not appropriate candidates for traditional brachytherapy. The MammoSite ML device has a central lumen, similar to the original MammoSite device, and three offset lumens parallel to the central lumen. In addition to allowing greater flexibility in radiation treatment planning, the use of a multiple-lumen device typically results in a higher reimbursement rate.  

MammoPad Breast Cushion  

Our mammography related products include a proprietary MammoPad breast cushion. The MammoPad cushion is designed to reduce the discomfort women often experience during mammography. The cushion’s grip-like surface also holds breast tissue in place to improve breast positioning. The radiolucent cushion does not interfere with image quality and can be used with all of our mammography systems.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Photoconductor Coatings  

Our AEG Elektrofotografie GmbH (“AEG”) subsidiary is our sole supplier of the amorphous selenium photoconductor coatings employed in our Selenia and Dimensions full-field digital mammography detectors. AEG also develops, manufactures, and sells non-medical selenium and organic photoconductor materials for use in a variety of other electro photographic applications, including copying and printing. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we closed our organic photoconductor drum coatings manufacturing operations in Shanghai, China, and completed the sale of the capital stock of this operation in the second quarter of fiscal 2010.  

Sentinelle Medical MRI Coils and Workstation  

Our Sentinelle Medical subsidiary develops, manufactures and sells a suite of high performance breast MRI coils. MRI coils are antenna receivers that are used to collect radio-frequency information emitted from a patient during an MR imaging procedure. These signals are fed into the MRI magnet system which produces a 3D image from the information. The coils are tuned to specific frequencies and positioned in calculated geometries to provide high quality signal to noise performance of the MRI system. The coils are integrated into various MRI scanning systems, and employ a unique variable coil geometry to obtain improved image quality by positioning the coils in close proximity to the tissue. The coil is not fixed and allows the healthcare provider to adjust positioning to each patient’s unique anatomy. This close positioning results in higher signal to noise ratio and improved image resolution. The improved resolution also enhances guidance for biopsy targeting. We are also developing coils for other indications, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for our new prostate coil, the Sentinelle Endo Coil Array for pelvic imaging including the prostate, cervix, colon and the surrounding tissues in the pelvis. With a similar profile to a transrectal ultrasound probe, this two-channel endo coil array is designed to acquire images in a manner that should help align radiologists and urologists in the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer. Commercialization of this product commenced in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. In addition, we sell an MRI CAD workstation designed to simplify workflow and improve diagnostic capabilities.  

Trident Specimen Radiography System  

On August 19, 2011, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for our new Trident specimen radiography system. The Trident specimen radiography system is a cabinet x-ray system used to provide digital images of surgical and core biopsy specimens to verify that the correct tissue has been excised during a breast biopsy procedure. Trident incorporates our amorphous selenium based detector technology. It is a compact and portable unit designed to be used in the same room where breast biopsy procedure has taken place. This is different from traditional x-ray verification systems, which are larger and generally located outside of the examination room. Performing verification in the same room as the procedure or nearby can improve workflow and reduce the time the patient needs to be under examination. Commercialization of this product commenced in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.  

Diagnostic Products  

Our diagnostic product offerings include the ThinPrep System used primarily for cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test for pre-term birth risk assessment. Our molecular diagnostic reagents are used for DNA and RNA analysis applications based on our proprietary Invader chemistry, including our two HPV tests approved by the FDA in 2009.  

ThinPrep System  

The ThinPrep System is the most widely used method for cervical cancer screening in the United States. If detected in the pre-cancerous stage, most cervical cancer cases are preventable. The ThinPrep System consists of any one or more of the following: the ThinPrep 2000 Processor, ThinPrep 3000 Processor, ThinPrep 5000 Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and related reagents, filters and other supplies, such as the ThinPrep Pap Test and our proprietary ThinPrep PreservCyt Solution. Our ThinPrep 5000 Processor has been launched for full use, as described below, outside of the U.S. but is limited to non-gynecological screening samples in the U.S.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The ThinPrep Process. The ThinPrep process begins with the patient’s cervical sample being obtained by the physician using a cervical sampling device that, rather than being smeared on a microscope slide as in a conventional Pap smear, is inserted into a vial filled with our proprietary PreservCyt Solution. This enables most of the patient’s cell samples to be preserved before the cells can be damaged by air drying. The ThinPrep specimen vial is then labeled and sent to a laboratory equipped with a ThinPrep Processor for slide preparation. At the laboratory, the ThinPrep specimen vial is inserted into a ThinPrep Processor, a proprietary sample preparation device which automates the process of preparing cervical slides for staining and microscopic examination.  

In the case of manual screening, the cytotechnologist screens each Pap test slide with a microscope to first determine the adequacy of the slide and then to examine the entire slide to differentiate diseased or abnormal cells from normal cells. With the ThinPrep Imaging System, the screening process has been automated to combine the power of computer imaging technology and human interpretive skills. Prior to human review, the ThinPrep Imaging System rapidly scans and locates areas of interest for review. By directing the cytotechnologist to areas of interest on a slide, the system may increase a cytology laboratory’s screening productivity and diagnostic accuracy. In Europe, where laboratories tend to be smaller, processing fewer tests, we also offer a lower throughput imaging device, which we introduced in September 2009 to assist in the detection of cervical cancer.  

Additional Applications. In addition to serving as a replacement for the conventional Pap smear, the ThinPrep System can also be used for non-gynecological cytology screening applications. Non-gynecological cytology applications include fine-needle aspiration specimens (e.g., breast, thyroid, lung or liver), body fluids (e.g., urine, pleural fluid, ascitic fluid, pericardial fluid), respiratory specimens (e.g., sputum, brushing of respiratory tracts) and ancillary testing (e.g., cell blocks, immunocytochemistry, special stains).  

Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test  

The Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test is a patented single-use disposable test used to determine a woman’s risk of preterm birth by detecting the presence of a specific protein, fetal fibronectin, in vaginal secretions during pregnancy. This test is approved by the FDA for use in assessing the risk of preterm birth. The test utilizes a single-use, disposable cassette and is analyzed on our patented instrument, the TLI IQ System.  

HPV Offering and InVitro Diagnostics  

Invader Chemistry. Our Invader chemistry platform is a DNA probe-based system for highly sensitive detection of specific nucleic acid sequences. It is an accurate and specific method for detecting single-base pair changes, insertions, deletions, gene copy number, infectious agents, and gene expression. Invader reactions can be performed using genomic DNA, amplified RNA, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or real-time PCR products.  

HPV Tests. HPV is the most common sexually transmitted disease in the U.S. and is recognized as the cause of most cervical cancer. We offer two HPV tests: the Cervista HPV HR and the Cervista HPV 16/18. These tests employ our proprietary Invader technology and are performed out of the ThinPrep PreservCyt collection vial. The Cervista HPV HR test is an in vitro diagnostic test for the qualitative detection of DNA from the fourteen high-risk HPV types responsible for most cervical disease. The Cervista HPV 16/18 test is an in vitro diagnostic test for the qualitative detection of DNA from HPV types 16 and 18, the types that cause approximately 70% of cervical cancer. We received FDA approval for these two tests in March 2009.  

Cervista HPV HR has been approved for triaging women with undetermined cervical cytology and co-testing with cervical cytology for women 30 years and older. Our Cervista HPV 16/18 has been approved to be used adjunctively with Cervista HPV HR in combination with cervical cytology to assess the presence of high risk HPV types, as well as to triage women with undetermined cervical cytology results along with our HPV HR test.  

8  

Table of Contents 

We are currently developing a high throughput instrumentation solution for Cervista testing. The instrument in development automates all steps in the Cervista HR in the testing process. Commercialization of this instrumentation is subject to FDA approval. We submitted the approval package to the FDA for the automated product in April 2011. We cannot assure that we will obtain FDA approval of this automated product on a timely basis, if at all, or that if approved it will be commercially successful.  

Other Invader Products. Other current clinical diagnostic offerings based upon our Invader chemistry include the following:  

   •    A molecular assay is cleared for use to identify patients who may be at increased risk of adverse reaction to the chemotherapy drug Camptosar (irinotecan) by detecting and identifying specific mutations in the UGT1A1 gene that have been associated with that risk.  

   •    Products to assist in the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases.  

In addition, we sell products to the Agricultural Biotechnology market. We also have an active out-licensing and partner program in areas outside of our core business that allows us to further realize the value of the Invader Chemistry.  

GYN Surgical Products  

Our surgical product offerings include the NovaSure system, the MyoSure system, the Adiana system, and the THS system.  

NovaSure  

The NovaSure system is a minimally-invasive procedure that allows physicians to treat women suffering from excessive menstrual bleeding. The system consists of a disposable device and a controller that delivers radio frequency, or RF, energy to ablate the endometrial lining of the uterus in order to eliminate or reduce the patient’s bleeding. The NovaSure disposable device is a hand-held, single-use device that incorporates a flexible gold-plated mesh electrode used to deliver the RF energy during the NovaSure procedure. The NovaSure RF Controller generates and delivers the RF energy customized for each patient, monitors several critical treatment and safety parameters, and automatically controls other aspects of the procedure.  

The NovaSure system is a “second generation” endometrial ablation therapy approved by the FDA to be performed without drug or surgical pre-treatment. Pre-treatment can be time-consuming, expensive and inconvenient for both patients and physicians and can result in uncomfortable or painful side effects and complications. In contrast, the NovaSure procedure is typically performed as an outpatient procedure in the hospital, ambulatory surgery center or physician’s office and often does not require the use of general anesthesia.  

MyoSure  

The MyoSure system is designed to provide safe, efficient, hysteroscopic removal of fibroids located just below the lining of the uterus as well as uterine polyps. Removal of fibroids can provide effective relief of heavy menstrual bleeding commonly attributed to such pathology. Unlike other methods of tissue removal, the excavated tissue samples remain intact, which allows them to be tested for abnormalities. Also, minimal tissue destruction makes the MyoSure system a good choice for women seeking to preserve uterine form and function.  

The MyoSure system consists of a tissue removal device, control unit, and hysteroscope. The tissue removal device is single-use and features simultaneous tissue cutting and removal. The device incorporates a rapidly rotating cutting blade designed to remove a 3 cm fibroid in less than 10 minutes. During the procedure, the tissue removal device is inserted through the MyoSure hysteroscope. This tissue removal device is powered by a control unit, which features a simple user interface and is foot pedal activated. The MyoSure procedure requires a source of visualization, a fluid delivery system and a regulated vacuum source, each of which is not included with the MyoSure system.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Adiana  

The Adiana system is a non-invasive procedure for permanent female contraception that requires no incisions and can be performed in the doctor’s office using local anesthesia. Patients are often able to return to work or resume their daily activities within one day. In contrast, tubal ligation, a traditional method of female permanent contraception, requires more invasive surgical procedures, is usually conducted in a hospital under general anesthesia and typically requires several days of recovery.  

During the Adiana procedure, a slender, flexible instrument is passed through the body’s natural openings to deliver a low level of RF energy to a small section of each fallopian tube. A tiny, soft insert, about the size of a grain of rice, is then placed in each fallopian tube in the location where the energy was applied. During the three months following the procedure, the patient continues to use temporary birth control while new tissue grows in and around the Adiana inserts, eventually blocking the fallopian tubes. At three months, a special x-ray test (called a hysterosalpingogram or “HSG”) is performed to confirm the fallopian tubes are completely blocked and the patient may begin relying on the Adiana System for permanent contraception. Because the Adiana insert is fully contained within the fallopian tube and does not use metal, the procedure leaves nothing in the uterus that could interfere with future intra-uterine procedures such as endometrial ablation.  

In connection with Conceptus, Inc.’s ongoing patent litigation against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, on October 17, 2011 the jury returned a verdict in favor of Conceptus, finding that the Adiana system infringes two claims of a single Conceptus’ patent and awarded damages to Conceptus. Post trial motions will be filed addressing certain issues that could impact the ultimate outcome of the case. We also expect that Conceptus will seek to enjoin us from further sales of the Adiana system. A hearing on the post trial motions and injunction request is scheduled for December 22, 2011. The jury verdict and any such determinations are subject to appeal by either party. If Conceptus is successful in upholding the verdict, we may be required to remove the Adiana system from the market.  

Towerfree Hysteroscopy System  

The Towerfree Hysteroscopy System (“THS”) is a hysteroscope that allows for visualization and inspection of the uterine cavity. The THS instrumentation was designed specifically for the gynecologist’s office, providing a compact and simple platform for uterine diagnosis and minor intraurine operative procedures. The system consists of a video platform and hysteroscope instrumentation. The components of the THS system (including a light source, camera, monitor and image capture system) have been integrated into a compact and portable unit. This is different from traditional hysteroscope systems, which are generally offered as separate units and require a large cart and significant footprint within the exam room.  

The THS instrumentation provides versatility in performing minor operative procedures intended to expand the utilization of the system and support the ‘see and treat’ benefit of hysteroscopy. The operative hysteroscope has a continuous flow, single-piece design for simple assembly and operation. It has been designed to allow optimal procedural conditions for the physician as well as enhance patient comfort. The instrument channel accommodates instruments that may be used to grasp or remove tissue. For those customers who want to perform diagnostic hysteroscopy, THS offers a small diameter single flow sheath, which reduces the need for cervical dilation and provides a tool for quick and simple visualization of the uterine cavity.  

Skeletal Health Products  

Our skeletal health products include a family of QDR dual energy x-ray bone densitometers and the Sahara Clinical Bone Sonometer and our mini C-arm imaging products.  

QDR X-Ray Bone Densitometers  

Bone densitometry is the measurement of bone density to assist in the diagnosis and monitoring of osteoporosis and other metabolic bone diseases that can lead to debilitating bone fractures. Osteoporosis is a  

10  

Table of Contents 

 disease that is most prevalent in post-menopausal women. Our proprietary QDR x-ray bone densitometers incorporate dual-energy x-ray technology to precisely assess bone density of the most important fracture sites, the spine and hip. Since our commercial introduction of the first bone densitometer employing dual-energy x-ray technology in 1987, we have continually improved upon our technology, and the use of dual-energy x-ray technology has become and remains a leading bone densitometry assessment tool. We offer a range of bone densitometers with various features and options to address the requirements of our diverse customer base.  

Sahara Clinical Bone Sonometers  

We have developed and sell a relatively low-cost, lightweight, portable ultrasound bone analyzer, which assesses the bone density of the heel that can assist in initial screening for osteoporosis.  

Mini C-arm Imaging  

We manufacture and distribute Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging systems. Mini C-arms provide low intensity, real-time x-ray imaging, with high-resolution images at radiation levels and at a cost below those of conventional x-ray and fluoroscopic equipment. Mini C-arm systems are used primarily by orthopedic surgeons to perform minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient’s extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot and ankle.  

Recent Acquisitions  

Our goal to provide a broad range of best-in-class products for screening, diagnosis and treatment to help women lead longer, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. To achieve this goal, in addition to internally developed growth through research and development efforts, we have obtained products and the necessary specialized expertise in different areas through acquisitions. In furtherance of this goal, during fiscal 2011 we acquired the following businesses:  

   •    In January 2011, we acquired Interlace, a privately-held developer, manufacturer, and supplier of the MyoSure system located in Framingham, Massachusetts.  

   •    In June 2011, we acquired TCT and subsidiaries, a privately-held distributor of medical products, including our ThinPrep Pap Test, related instruments and other diagnostic and surgical products. TCT’s operating subsidiaries are located in Beijing, China.  

   •    In July 2011, we acquired Healthcome, a privately-held manufacturer of medical equipment, including mammography equipment, located in Beijing, China.  

Additional information pertaining to our acquisitions is contained in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Acquisitions” contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report.  

We expect to continue to make future investments or acquisitions to further strengthen our existing businesses, including our presence in selected geographic markets. Mergers and acquisitions of medical technology companies and companies in diverse geographical locations are inherently risky and we cannot assure that any of our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not otherwise have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  

Marketing, Sales and Service  

We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service forces and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, foreign sales accounted for approximately 24%, 21% and 20% of our product sales, respectively. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for geographical information concerning those sales.  

11  

Table of Contents 

As of September 24, 2011, our direct sales and service force consisted of approximately 2,089 people.  

U.S. Marketing and Sales  

Our U.S. Breast Health and Skeletal Health sales force is comprised of full line modality account managers selling mammography and bone densitometry products, assisted by women’s health product specialists and osteoporosis sales specialists. Our biopsy and MRI sales specialists, who often work together with account managers, sell breast biopsy devices and breast biopsy site markers to radiologists and breast surgeons, as well as custom MRI coils and patient positioning systems to radiologists. Our territory sales specialists sell both our MammoSite and breast biopsy and site marker products and target breast surgeons and radiation oncologists. In addition to our MRI sales specialists, our Sentinelle Medical MRI business also supports the original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) channel with product specialists and sales support. Our U.S. sales efforts also include the use of national account managers focused on obtaining purchasing contracts from large purchasing entities, such as managed care organizations, integrated delivery networks (“IDNs”) and government healthcare facilities. In addition, in certain regions of the U.S., we use a limited number of independent dealers or distributors to sell and service our product.  

Our U.S. Diagnostics and GYN Surgical sales forces focus on clinical laboratories, healthcare providers, and third-party payors. A critical element of our strategy in the United States has been to utilize the results of our clinical trials and expanded FDA labeling to demonstrate safety, efficacy and productivity improvements to our target customers. Our Diagnostics’ sales force includes both cytology and molecular specialists focusing on selling to a broad range of laboratories. In addition, our Diagnostic sales specialist call exclusively on OB/GYN offices, while our GYN Surgical sales force targets GYN surgeons in both hospital and office settings.  

International Marketing and Sales  

We sell our breast health and skeletal health products in international markets through a network of independent distributors and sales representatives, as well as a direct sales and service force in Belgium, the UK, Australia and most recently in China for our Healthcome products. We offer our products in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, South Asia, Latin America, and Pacific Rim countries, including China, Japan, Australia, South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan, through local sales representatives in select countries and through distributors in those territories.  

Our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical products are marketed outside of the United States by direct operations in Canada, Europe, Australia, China and Hong Kong. We established these operations to manage sales, service, training and distribution in the Canadian, European and Asia/Pacific markets. We also utilize a network of third-party distributors in various other countries throughout the world. We believe that in order to effectively market our current products and any other new products and applications on a worldwide basis, we will need to continue to increase our international marketing, sales, and service capabilities.  

Service  

Our service organization is responsible for installing our products and providing warranty and repair services, applications training and biomedical training. Products sold by our direct sales force typically carry limited warranties covering parts and labor for twelve months. Products sold through dealers also carry limited warranties that typically last for twelve months and cover only parts or components. We also offer service contracts to our customers that generally last one to five years after the original warranty period. We provide both repair services and routine maintenance services under these arrangements, and also offer repair and maintenance services on a time and materials basis to customers that do not have service contracts. Internationally, we primarily use distributors, sales representatives and third parties to provide maintenance service for our products.  

As of September 24, 2011, we employed approximately 648 people as field service engineers, internal technical support personnel and related administrative personnel.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Competition  

The healthcare industry is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvements in technology. The is particularly the case in the market segments in which we operate. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a broader product portfolio, which may make these competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, physicians and other potential customers. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Some of the companies with whom we compete have or may have more extensive research, sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. Competitors may develop superior products or products of similar quality for sale at the same or lower prices. Moreover, our products could be rendered obsolete by new industry standards or changing technology. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors.  

We believe that the success of our products depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves and to demonstrate that our products deliver the attributes that are most important to customers. This includes, but is not limited to, superiority in efficacy, ease of use, reliability, quality and cost. We believe our continued success depends in large part upon our ability to invest in product enhancements and technologies that will help us distinguish ourselves from our competitors.  

Breast Health. Our mammography and related products and subsystems compete on a worldwide basis with products offered by a number of competitors, including GE, Siemens, Philips (who recently acquired Sectra), Planmed, Agfa, Carestream Health, Fuji, IMS Giotto, and Toshiba. In the U.S., our full field digital mammography systems compete with digital mammography systems from GE, Siemens, Fuji, Giotto, Philips and Planmed. Our digital mammography systems also compete with Fuji’s and Carestream Health’s Computed Radiography (“CR”) mammography systems, and other lower-priced alternatives to 2D digital mammography and analog mammography systems. Our 3D tomosynthesis systems compete in certain countries outside of the U.S. with 3D tomosynthesis systems developed by Siemens, Giotto, Philips and Planmed. We also understand that GE is developing a 3D tomosynthesis system. Although we understand that certain of our competitors, including GE and Siemens, are developing 3D tomosynthesis systems for commercial use in the U.S., there are no 3D tomosynthesis systems, other than the Company’s Dimensions system, that have been so approved by the FDA. Any such use will require pre-market approval (PMA) by the FDA. As a result, in the U.S. our 3D tomosynthesis systems currently compete primarily with lower cost 2D digital mammography systems.  

Our Sentinelle Medical MRI breast coils compete primarily with those sold by Invivo, acquired by Philips in 2006, to end users and original equipment manufacturers, as well as other smaller third party coil designers and the original equipment manufacturers themselves.  

The primary competitors for our breast biopsy product line are Devicor Medical Products, which acquired the Mammotome product line from Ethicon and C.R. Bard, which recently acquired SenoRx. In addition, other competitors include CareFusion, Sanarus and Intact Medical.  

Our MammoSite systems face competition from companies also selling accelerated partial breast irradiation products, including C.R. Bard and Cianna Medical, as well as from other technologies, such as treatments using external beam, whole breast radiation, which has longer-term data on patient outcomes. Alternative radiation therapy methods, such as intraoperative radiation therapy, are being used by some institutions; however, such alternative methods have not yet achieved widespread commercial use. We believe that the breast brachytherapy market has and will continue to experience certain challenges including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Diagnostics. Our ThinPrep liquid-based cytology product faces direct competition in the United States primarily from Becton, Dickinson and Company, which manufactures a competitive offering. We also compete with the conventional Pap smear and other alternative methods for detecting cervical cancer and/or its precursors. Internationally, our ThinPrep product competes with a variety of companies and other “off-market” (non-FDA-approved) tests, since fewer regulatory barriers exist in most international markets as compared to the United States.  

We are currently the only provider of a molecular test for predicting the risk of preterm birth in the United States, and internationally, our test competes with Actum Partus manufactured by Alere. However, this product could experience competition from companies that manufacture and market pregnancy-related diagnostic products and services. In addition, healthcare providers use diagnostic techniques such as clinical examination and ultrasound to diagnose the likelihood of preterm birth and may choose these techniques rather than use the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test.  

In the molecular diagnostics market, our products compete with many companies in the U.S. and abroad engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. These companies may have or develop products competitive with those offered by us. Clinical laboratories also may offer testing services that are competitive with our products and may use reagents purchased from us or others to develop their own diagnostic tests. Such laboratory-developed tests may not be subject to the same clinical trial and FDA submission requirements as our products.  

In the clinical market, we compete with several companies offering alternative technologies to the Invader chemistry including Abbott Laboratories, Siemens, Becton, Dickinson and Company, Qiagen, Roche Diagnostics Corporation, Gen-Probe, Applera Corporation, Applied Biosystems, Celera, Innogenetics, Inc., and Luminex Corporation. Our Cervista HPV HR test, which was approved by the FDA in March 2009, competes with tests marketed by Qiagen, which received FDA approval in 1999, Roche Diagnostics, which received PMA approval for a high risk HPV test and 16/18 test in 2011, and Gen-Probe, which received PMA approval for a high risk HPV test in 2011.  

GYN Surgical. Our NovaSure system currently faces direct competition from Johnson & Johnson, Boston Scientific and CooperSurgical, each of which currently markets an FDA-approved “second generation” endometrial ablation device for the treatment of excessive menstrual bleeding. In addition to these devices, there exist alternative treatments to our NovaSure system, such as drug therapy, IUDs, hysterectomy, dilation and curettage and rollerball ablation. Internationally our products compete with drug therapy and first generation rollerball technology, as well as other endometrial ablation devices, including Johnson & Johnson’s Thermachoice, Boston Scientific’s HTA, and two other relatively small companies that market products that are not FDA approved. Because drug therapy is an alternative to our NovaSure procedure, NovaSure’s competitors also include many major pharmaceutical companies that manufacture hormonal drugs for women.  

Our MyoSure product competes directly with hysteroscopic loop resection and Smith and Nephew’s TruClear tissue morcellator. The MyoSure product also competes with alternative therapeutic techniques such as hysteroscopic resection with a monopolar or bipolar loop, which is currently the most common technique for removing intrauterine fibroids and polyps.  

Our Adiana product competes directly with Conceptus, Inc.’s Essure product, marketed for hysteroscopic sterilization. In addition, the Adiana system competes with traditional permanent contraception methods, such as tubal ligation and vasectomy, as well as with other products used for temporary birth control methods, such as diaphragms, condoms, spermicides, birth control pills and IUDs.  

Our THS system competes with a number of endoscopy companies including Richard Wolf, Stryker, ACMI/Olympus, and Karl Storz.  

Skeletal Health. GE is our primary competitor in the bone densitometry market, and we have faced competition from Orthoscan in the mini-C arm market.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Manufacturing  

We have historically purchased many of the components and raw materials used in our products from numerous suppliers worldwide. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are available only from one supplier. We have worked closely with our suppliers to develop contingency plans to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, and in some cases, we have established long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. In certain instances, we have developed in-house capability to offset potential shortages caused by sole source suppliers. Due to the high standards and FDA requirements applicable to the manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials or components on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-competitive basis may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We manufacture our direct radiography detectors at our manufacturing facilities in Newark, Delaware and Warstein, Germany. We manufacture substantially all of our mammography and certain of our breast biopsy systems at our manufacturing facilities in Danbury, Connecticut. We manufacture our CAD line of products, the SecurView Work Stations, our osteoporosis assessment and our mini C-arm imaging systems at our headquarters in Bedford, Massachusetts. We continue to develop our software for our CAD products at our Santa Clara, California facility. The MammoPad breast cushion is manufactured by third parties and drop-shipped from our suppliers directly to our customers. Our breast biopsy disposable products are manufactured in Indianapolis, Indiana. Our ATEC control consoles for breast biopsy are manufactured by a third party, with quality control performed by our employees. Our Sentinelle Medical MRI breast coils are manufactured at our Toronto, Canada location.  

Our ThinPrep Processors and ThinPrep Imaging Systems are assembled at our facility in Marlborough, Massachusetts. Our ThinPrep PreservCyt vials are filled at our facility in Londonderry, New Hampshire. Our ThinPrep system filters are manufactured at both our Marlborough and Londonderry facilities. The manufacture of our NovaSure disposable devices occurs at our facility in Alajuela, Costa Rica. The production of the RF Controller component of our NovaSure system takes place at our Marlborough facility. We contract with several third-parties to manufacture certain components of our MammoSite system, and we complete the manufacturing process at our Costa Rica and/or Marlborough locations, depending on the configuration. We manufacture our Adiana system at our manufacturing facility in Costa Rica, although the Adiana RF Controller, SureSound and the THS are supplied through third-parties. Our MyoSure products are assembled at both our Framingham, Massachusetts, and Marlborough facilities. We are in the process of fully transitioning production of this product from Framingham to Marlborough.  

We manufacture our molecular diagnostics products at our facility in Madison, Wisconsin and source certain components from various contract manufacturers.  

As noted above, we manufacture our products at a number of different facilities located throughout the world. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. Our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. Because some of our manufacturing operations are located in Germany, Costa Rica and China, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Backlog  

Our backlog as of November 6, 2011 and November 7, 2010 totaled $254.6 million and $274.4 million, respectively. Backlog consists of customer orders for which a delivery schedule within the next twelve months has been specified. Orders included in backlog may be canceled or rescheduled by customers without significant penalty. Backlog as of any particular date should not be relied upon as indicative of our net revenues for any future period.  

Research and Development  

The markets in which we participate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. Investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. Our research and development efforts are focused on the further development and improvement of our existing products, the design and development of innovative medical technologies and regulatory compliance. During fiscal 2011, our development projects included the ongoing development, clinical trials and other support for the FDA clearance or approval process for our 3D Dimensions product, as well as the development of improvements to next generation laboratory automation and GYN surgical products. We anticipate continuing research and development to support these ongoing efforts.  

In addition to product development, our research and development personnel play an active role in the review of product specifications, clinical protocols and FDA submissions, as well as ensuring that certain of our products conform to European health, safety and environmental requirements (“CE” marking). Our research and development expenses were $116.7 million, $104.3 million and $102.5 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These expenses do not include acquired in-process research and development expenses of $2.0 million in fiscal 2010.  

Patents and Proprietary Rights  

We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Due to the rapid technological changes that characterize the markets we operate in, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and the development of new products are generally as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, we have obtained patents and will continue to make efforts to obtain patents, when available, in connection with our product development program.  

We own numerous U.S. patents and have applied for numerous additional U.S. patents relating to our technologies. We also own or have applied for corresponding patents in selected foreign countries. These patents relate to various aspects of most of our products. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. There is a risk that our patent applications will not be granted or that granted patents will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. Unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. In addition, because patent applications in the U.S. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. The rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology.  

In addition to the patents we have been issued or we have acquired, we license patents from others on a variety of terms and conditions.  

16  

Table of Contents 

We are engaged in intellectual property litigation as described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and may be notified in the future of claims that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. In connection with any such litigation or if any claims are asserted against us or our products, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide or be required to litigate such claims. A successful claim by a third party may require us to remove the accused product from the market or to design around the patented technology, potentially resulting in a less acceptable product. In connection with Conceptus, Inc.’s ongoing patent litigation against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, on October 17, 2011 the jury returned a verdict in favor of Conceptus, finding that the Adiana system infringes two claims of a single Conceptus’ patent and awarded damages to Conceptus. Post trial motions will be filed addressing certain issues that could impact the ultimate outcome of the case. We also expect that Conceptus will seek to enjoin us from further sales of the Adiana system. A hearing on the post trial motions and injunction request is scheduled for December 22, 2011. The jury verdict and any such determinations are subject to appeal by either party. If Conceptus is successful in upholding the verdict, we may be required to remove the Adiana system from the market. Any actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. As a result, any infringement claims by third parties or other claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects.  

Regulatory  

The manufacture, sale, lease and service of medical diagnostic and surgical devices intended for commercial use are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the FDA in the United States and by a variety of regulatory agencies in other countries. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, known as the FD&C Act, manufacturers of medical products and devices must comply with certain regulations governing the design, testing, manufacturing, packaging, servicing and marketing of medical products. Some of our products are also subject to the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act, administered by the FDA, which imposes performance standards and record keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements for devices that emit radiation, such as x-rays.  

The FDA generally must clear the commercial sale of new medical devices. Commercial sales of our medical devices within the United States must be preceded by either a pre-market notification filing pursuant to Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act or the granting of a PMA. A 510(k) pre-market notification filing must contain information establishing that the device to be sold is substantially equivalent to a device commercially distributed prior to May 28, 1976.  

The PMA procedure involves a complex and lengthy testing and review process by the FDA and may require several years to obtain. We may need to first obtain an investigational device exemption, known as an IDE, in order to conduct extensive clinical testing of the device to obtain the necessary clinical data for submission to the FDA. The FDA will grant a PMA only if after evaluating clinical data it finds that the safety and effectiveness of the product has been sufficiently demonstrated. This approval may restrict the number of devices distributed or require additional patient follow-up for an indefinite period of time.  

Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain approval from a foreign country to market and sell our products may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. In addition, we may be required to meet the FDA’s export requirements or receive FDA export approval for export of our products to foreign countries. Moreover, some of our technology is governed by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations of the United States Department of State. As a result, the export of some of our systems to some countries may be limited or prohibited.  

Our manufacturing processes and facilities are subject to continuing review by the FDA and foreign governments or their representatives. Adverse findings could result in various actions against us, including withdrawal of approvals and product recall.  

17  

Table of Contents 

The laboratories that purchase our ThinPrep System, ThinPrep Imaging System, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and Cervista HPV tests are subject to extensive regulation under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”), which requires laboratories to meet specified standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We believe that the ThinPrep System (including the ThinPrep Imaging System), Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and Cervista HPV tests operate in a manner that will allow laboratories purchasing these products to comply with CLIA requirements. However, we cannot assure that adverse interpretations of current CLIA regulations or future changes in CLIA regulations would not have an adverse effect on sales of the ThinPrep System, ThinPrep Imaging System, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, and the Cervista HPV tests.  

The majority of the molecular diagnostic products we acquired as part of the Third Wave acquisition were sold as Analyte Specific Reagents, known as ASRs. The FDA restricts the sale of these products to clinical laboratories certified under CLIA to perform high complexity testing and also restricts the types of products that can be sold as ASRs. In 2006, followed by additional clarification in 2007, the FDA issued guidance concerning acceptable examples of reagents that meet the threshold of the ASR regulations. In this guidance, the FDA outlined examples of products and marketing practices that go beyond the scope of the ASR regulations making the reagent part of a test system potentially subject to premarket review. These examples include combining, or promoting for use, a single ASR with another product such as other ASRs, general purpose reagents, controls, laboratory equipment, software, etc., or promoting an ASR with specific analytical or performance claims, instructions for use in a particular test, or instructions for validation of a specific test using the ASR. As a result of this guidance we took appropriate steps to discontinue certain Third Wave products that were previously sold as ASRs. We received investigational device exemptions for the remaining products allowing us the ability to continue commercialization while we obtain FDA clearance through the 510(k) process.  

We cannot assure that the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will give the requisite approvals or clearances for any of our medical devices under development on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, after clearance is given, these agencies can later withdraw the clearance or require us to change the device or its manufacturing process or labeling, to supply additional proof of its safety and effectiveness, or to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of the medical device, if it is shown to be hazardous or defective. The process of obtaining clearance to market products is costly and time-consuming and can delay the marketing and sale of our products.  

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including federal and state anti-kickback laws, as well as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for an entity to solicit, offer, receive, or pay remuneration or anything of value in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business or the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any item or service paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal and state healthcare programs. The statute has been broadly interpreted to cover a wide array of practices. Some states have passed similar laws and also regulate the interactions with Health Care Providers (“HCP”) as well as the requirement to disclose payments to HCPs. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors,” which if applicable will assure that certain arrangements will not be found to violate the federal anti-kickback statutes. Similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. While we make every effort to comply with applicable law and regulations, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under federal or state anti-kickback, FCPA or similar laws due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of extensive guidance regarding compliance. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to raise questions about our behavior or  

18  

Table of Contents 

 find that we have violated these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above, due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities.  

We are further subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, among others. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future, and complying with these laws may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices and pharmaceuticals are subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business.  

Reimbursement  

In the U.S., the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS, establishes policies for the coverage and reimbursement of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Under current CMS policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for bone density assessment, endometrial ablations, mammography and other imaging, diagnostic tests and surgical procedures performed using our products. Coverage policies for Medicare patients may vary by regional Medicare carrier in the absence of a National Coverage Decision and reimbursement rates for procedures will vary based on the geographic price index. Coverage and reimbursement for patients with private insurance is dependent on the individual private payer’s decisions and may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS for Medicare. Moreover, private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the CMS reimbursement policies. The use of our products outside the U.S. is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign regulatory and insurance carriers.  

In November 2011, CMS announced 2012 reimbursement rates for physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. For 2011, as part of US healthcare reform legislation, which was passed on March 23, 2010, reimbursement for bone density screening in 2010 and 2011 was adjusted to 70% of the 2006 rates. This resulted in an approximate increase of 60% of the rates published in the 2010 CMS Physician Fee Schedule. However, unless future legislation is adopted, the reimbursement for bone density screening will revert in 2012 to the prior CMS Physician Fee Schedule, which would result in an over 40% reduction in reimbursement for such screening, as compared to 2011 reimbursement rates. The CMS reimbursement rates for 2012 also include a general reduction of 27% in the Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”) factor. This factor is used by CMS in a formula to determine doctor reimbursements and, if implemented, would correspondingly affect the reimbursement for the use of our products. Congress has, from time to time, overridden some or all of the proposed reductions in reimbursement. However, we cannot assure that Congress will override any part of the recent proposed reductions. Significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products has had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on the sales of those products.  

CMS has not adopted a reimbursement rate for the use of 3D tomosynthesis, as tomosynthesis was only recently approved by the FDA in February 2011 in connection with our PMA application for our Dimensions system. We are working with governmental authorities, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in our efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3D tomosynthesis. However, we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3D tomosynthesis would adversely affect sales of our Dimensions 3D systems.  

Political, economic and regulatory influences, including those envisioned by the recent adoption, in March 2010, of U.S. healthcare reform may subject the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the federal government and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding  

19  

Table of Contents 

 access. Healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the United States and in many foreign countries could, among other things, limit the use of our products and treatments and further reduce reimbursement available for such use. These reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects.  

Employees  

As of September 24, 2011, we had approximately 5,019 full-time employees, including 1,771 in manufacturing operations, 540 in research and development, 2,227 in marketing, sales and support services, and 481 in finance and administration. The non-management employees of our AEG subsidiary are represented by a union. AEG’s approximate 201 non-management German employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements negotiated on a national and regional basis between Unternehmens-Verband Südöstliches Westfalen e.V., the Employers Association of North Rhine-Westphalia, and the German Metal Workers Union, IndustrieGewerkschaft Metall. In addition, AEG’s German employees are represented by a works council, a Betriebsrat, with respect to various shop agreements for social matters and working conditions. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Except as described herein, none of our other employees are represented by a union.  

Seasonality  

Worldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer purchases of our GYN Surgical products have been historically less in the second fiscal quarter of the year as compared to other quarters. In addition, the summer months, which is during our fiscal fourth quarter, typically have had lower order rates internationally for most of our products.  

20  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors