Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, cost-method equity investments, insurance contracts and related DCP liability, accounts payable and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding Convertible Notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. As of September 24, 2011, we have $1.725 billion of principal of Convertible Notes outstanding, which are comprised of our Original Notes with a principal of $1.275 billion and our Exchange Notes with a principal of $450.0 million. The Convertible Notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our Original Notes and Exchange Notes as of September 24, 2011 was approximately $1.20 billion and $468.7 million, respectively.  

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.  

We conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the United States as well as manufacturing facilities in Germany, Costa Rica, Canada and China. The expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our Costa Rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in U.S. dollars. Our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the Euro and U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency.  

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the Euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against the Euro. Our expenses denominated in Euros are positively affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Euro and adversely affected when the United States dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net foreign exchange losses of $0.7 million, $1.1 million and $2.3 million, respectively.  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.