Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

 (Dollars in millions)  

INTEREST RATE RISK

 Our primary exposure to market risk is through changes in interest rates. In seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. We do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments.  

We have both credit card receivables that generate finance charge income and debt obligations for which we pay fixed and variable interest expense. We manage our net interest rate exposure through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. A portion of our credit card receivables maintains a fixed interest rate. Additionally, a portion of this portfolio is used as convenience by our customers who pay in full monthly. The annualized effect of a one-percentage-point change in interest rates would not materially affect net earnings.  

Additionally, short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximates fair value.  

The table below presents information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to changes in interest rates at January 31, 2009. For debt obligations, including our capital leases, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

 The majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in Euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. We use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. We do not believe the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at January 31, 2009 to be material.  

30  
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.