Item 1A. Risk Factors.

 (Dollars in millions)  

Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations.  

DETERIORIATION OF ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

 The recent deterioration in economic conditions has hurt our business in several ways. Instability in the stock market, tightening of consumer credit and the recent decline in the housing market in the United States has caused a reduction in consumer spending. This has had a significant negative impact on our revenues. We sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. During economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our Web site, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. The deterioration of economic conditions has also adversely affected our credit customers’ payment patterns and default rates, increasing our bad debt expense. We do not expect that economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future, and a continuation or worsening of the credit crisis, or even the fear of such a development, could continue to harm our business.  

ABILITY TO RESPOND TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND FASHION TRENDS

 Our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences quickly, and to match our merchandise mix to consumer tastes, impacts our sales and operating results. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences quickly enough, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. In addition, many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic, and general economic conditions could decrease consumer spending at our stores.  

BRAND AND REPUTATION

 We have a well-recognized brand that many customers believe offers a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business.  

INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

 We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. We make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and net earnings. Conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may not have an adequate supply of products to meet our customers’ demand. This may cause us to lose sales or harm our customer relationships.  

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY

 Our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. This includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business and returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. To a large degree, capital management and liquidity reflects how well we manage our other key risks. The actions we take to address other specific risks could affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital management and liquidity. If we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our business may suffer.  

IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES

 The retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. In the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve consumers’ needs. If we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining sales and declining profitability due to higher markdowns.  

STORE GROWTH PLAN

 Our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening several new full-line and Rack stores, with 28 announced store openings through 2013. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. New store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could affect our return on investment. Performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping in our stores. Our expected opening dates have sometimes been delayed because of developer plan delays. If these developer plan delays continue or worsen, they could have a negative impact on profitability. Our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a way that generates appropriate returns on investment could affect our future growth and profitability.  

6  
CONSUMER CREDIT

 Our credit card operations drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. Our credit card revenue is subject to changes in interest rates which fluctuate based on market conditions. The market conditions influencing interest rates are based on economic factors that are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our ability to extend credit to our customers and to collect payments from them depends on many factors including compliance with applicable laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Changes in credit card use, payment patterns and default rates have resulted from a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control or predict with certainty. Changes that impact our ability to extend credit and collect payments have negatively affected our results and may continue in the future.  

AVAILABILITY AND COST OF CREDIT

 U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. As a result of this disruption, we have experienced an increase in the cost of borrowings necessary to operate our business. If these conditions continue or become worse, our cost of borrowing could continue to increase. It may also become more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs we incur in order to finance our operations may have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition.  

SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION

 We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third-parties to manufacture our merchandise. We may experience operational difficulties with our vendors, such as the availability of production capacity, errors in meeting merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. A vendor’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required quality standards could cause supply shortages and could result in lost sales. We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our six distribution centers and our Direct fulfillment center. We believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient. However, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores or our customers and could increase our costs. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, if any of the distribution centers or our fulfillment center is shut down for any reason, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or we may not receive insurance proceeds in a timely manner.  

RELATIONSHIP WITH VENDORS AND DEVELOPERS

 Our relationships with our vendors and developers have been a significant contributor to our past success and our position as a retailer of high-quality and fashion merchandise. Some of our vendors and developers have experienced serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis. In addition, the recent economic deterioration has reduced the availability of funds for vendors and developers.  

We depend on the work of our developer partners to be able to sustain our store growth plan. In the case of developer delays of shopping center expansion, renovation or construction projects or developer bankruptcies, our expected store openings or remodels could be further delayed or cancelled, and maintenance and leasing at some shopping centers in which we have stores could be adversely affected.  

Many of our key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition to obtain and sell those goods is intense. Nearly all the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of our top vendors were to increase sales of merchandise through their own stores or to the stores of our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our principal merchandising sources. To counteract cash flow problems, our vendors could attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms or seek other relief. Accordingly there can be no assurance that our vendors will continue to meet our quality, style or volume requirements. Our vendors may be forced to reduce their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases would make it difficult for us to serve the market’s needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION OF STORES

 A significant amount of our total sales are derived from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly California, which increases our dependence on local economic conditions within these states. The success of our credit card business is also highly dependent on our customers’ ability to pay and our ability to minimize risk when extending credit to cardholders. Deterioration in economic conditions and consumer confidence within these states has negatively impacted our business, including a reduction in overall sales, reduced gross margins and increased expenses including bad debt expense. These trends could become worse if these factors continue.  

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING

 The training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term growth. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. If unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. Our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified key personnel.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 7  
EMPLOYMENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws, employment laws and discrimination laws set forth by the federal government and in each of the states and municipalities where we do business. Human resource laws include regulations related to wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. Wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California. Employment and discrimination laws continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. Failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale, and harm to our business and results of operations.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY

 The protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits.  

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY

 We make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. For 2009, we expect to spend approximately $155 on information technology operations and system development, which is key to our growth. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date.  

We may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if we are not ready or capable of accepting it. Excessive technological change impacts the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. However, not implementing new technologies can also compromise our competitive position. If we are unable to strike the appropriate balance in the pace of our adoption of new technology, our business may suffer.  

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, NYSE, the banking industry and foreign countries. Additional legal and regulatory requirements and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements.  

MULTI-CHANNEL STRATEGY EXECUTION

 Over the past several years, we have made changes in our Direct business that better align our online shopping environment with the customer experience in our full-line stores. These changes included: aligning our Direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores and Web site, linking the full-line stores and Direct merchandise organizations; reducing the number and frequency of our Direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our Direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform. Our inability to continue to successfully execute this strategy could impact our future operating performance.  

SEASONALITY

 Our business is seasonal in nature. Due to our Anniversary Sale in July and the holidays in December, sales are higher for our Retail Stores and Direct segment in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. Accordingly, our results may vary considerably from quarter to quarter. In addition, we have significant additional cash requirements in the period leading up to the months of November and December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those months, including expenses for additional inventory, advertising and employees.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY

 We purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by fluctuations of their local currency against the U.S. dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We purchase goods from many countries and are affected by changes in numerous currencies as well as fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold, and if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.  

ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS

 We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person.  

8  
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

Item 2. Properties.