PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

 Nordstrom incorporated in the state of Washington in 1946 as the successor to a retail shoe business that started in 1901. We are one of the nation’s leading fashion specialty retailers, with 171 U.S. stores located in 28 states as of March 20, 2009. The west coast and east coast are the areas in which we have the largest presence. Nordstrom is comprised of four segments: Retail Stores, Direct, Credit, and Other.  

Retail Stores derives its revenues from sales of high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. It includes our 109 ‘Nordstrom’ full-line stores, 58 off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, two clearance stores that operate under the name ‘Last Chance,’ and two ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques. The Nordstrom Rack stores purchase merchandise directly from manufacturers and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from our full-line stores.  

In 2008, we opened eight full-line stores (Aventura, Florida; Honolulu, Hawaii; Burlington, Massachusetts; Clinton Township, Michigan; Thousand Oaks, California; Indianapolis, Indiana; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Naples, Florida), relocated one full-line store (Tacoma, Washington) and opened six Rack stores (White Plains, New York; Laguna Hills, California; Naperville, Illinois; Lyndhurst, Ohio; Danvers, Massachusetts; and San Antonio, Texas). To date in 2009, we have relocated one full-line store (Murray, Utah) and opened two new Rack stores (Paramus, New Jersey and Dallas, Texas). During the remainder of 2009, we are scheduled to open three full-line stores (Cherry Hill, New Jersey; Peabody, Massachusetts; and Cincinnati, Ohio) and open eight additional Rack stores (Sandy, Utah; Orland Park, Illinois; East Palo Alto, California; Los Angeles, California; Southlake, Texas; Orlando, Florida; Pasadena, California; and Cincinnati, Ohio). In 2010, we are scheduled to open three full-line stores, relocate one full-line store and open four Rack stores.  

Direct generates revenues from sales of high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories by serving our customers on the Internet at www.nordstrom.com and through our catalogs. The Direct segment’s sales are primarily shipped via third-party carriers from our fulfillment center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  

Through our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, we offer a private label card, two Nordstrom VISA credit cards and a debit card for Nordstrom purchases. The credit and debit cards feature a shopping-based loyalty program designed to increase customer visits and spending in our Retail Stores and Direct segments. Our Credit segment generates income through finance charges and other fees on these cards.  

Our Other segment includes our product development team, called Nordstrom Product Group, which designs and contracts to manufacture private label merchandise sold in our Retail Stores and Direct. In addition, this segment includes our corporate center operations. During the time that we owned it, this segment also included the operations of our Façonnable business.  

For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition

 and Results of Operations” on page 15 and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

FISCAL YEAR END

 Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2008 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. References to 2007 and 2006 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 and 53-week fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, respectively. Fiscal year 2006 includes an extra week (the 53rd week) as a result of our 4-5-4 retail reporting calendar. References to 2009 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ending January 30, 2010.  

TRADEMARKS

 We have approximately 139 registered trademarks or trademark applications. Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, John W. Nordstrom, Caslon, and Classiques Entier. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely provided that it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.  

RETURN POLICY

 We offer our customers a fair and liberal return policy at our full-line stores and Nordstrom Direct (online and catalog). Our Nordstrom Rack stores accept returns up to 30 days from the date of purchase. In general, our return policy is somewhat more generous than industry standards. We utilize historical return patterns to estimate our expected returns.  

SEASONALITY

 Due to our Anniversary Sale in July and the holidays in December, historically, sales are higher for our Retail Stores and Direct in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters.  

INVENTORY

 We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with the selling patterns that we expect. For instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which extends over the last two weeks of July. Also, we purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through early January). We pay for our merchandise purchases under the terms established with our vendors.  

4  
In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase merchandise from a wide variety of high-quality suppliers. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. Our suppliers include domestic and foreign businesses. We expect our suppliers to meet our “Nordstrom Partnership: Standards and Business Practice Guidelines,” which address our standards for matters such as law, labor, health and safety, and environment.  

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

 Our business is highly competitive. Each of our stores competes with other national, regional and local retail establishments that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the principal methods of competing in our industry include customer service, fashion, quality of product, depth of selection, store environment and location.  

EMPLOYEES

 During 2008, we regularly employed on a full- or part-time basis approximately 51,000 employees. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 54,000 employees in July 2008 and 52,000 in December 2008.  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

 Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking” information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial results, store openings, capital expenditures and dividend yield, and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to, the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, the company’s ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, the competitive pricing environment within the retail sector, effective inventory management, the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing, and promotional campaigns, successful execution of the company’s store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations, and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties, the company’s compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting the company’s ability to extend credit to its customers, the company’s compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to the company, successful execution of the company’s multi-channel strategy, the company’s ability to safeguard its brand and reputation, efficient and proper allocation of the company’s capital resources, successful execution of the company’s technology strategy, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, availability and cost of credit, changes in interest rates, the company’s ability to maintain its relationships with company employees and to effectively train and develop its future leaders, the company’s ability to control costs, risks related to fluctuations in world currencies, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers’ purchasing patterns, and the timing and amounts of any share repurchases by the company.  

These and other factors could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. As a result, while we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, you should not place undue reliance on those statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.  

SEC FILINGS

 We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

WEB SITE ACCESS

 Our Internet Web site address is www.nordstrom.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events over our Internet Web site.  

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

 We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the rules of the SEC, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors (“Codes of Ethics”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We have posted on our Internet Web site our Codes of Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive, and Finance committees. These items are also available in print to any person, without charge, upon request to:  

Nordstrom, Inc. Investor Relations

 P.O. Box 2737

 Seattle, Washington 98111-2737

 (206) 303-3200

 invrelations@nordstrom.com  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 5  
Item 1A. Risk Factors.