Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

(Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts) 

Nordstrom is a fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise. We offer our products through multiple channels including full-line ‘Nordstrom’ stores, off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques, catalogs and on the Internet at www.nordstrom.com. Our stores are located throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a variety of payment products and services including our loyalty program.  

As a multi-channel retailer, we believe we are well positioned to respond to evolving customer needs and expectations. Our goal is to offer knowledgeable, friendly and welcoming service in our stores, online, and through our credit business with an integrated offering and consistent experience. Our salespeople are focused on building deeper relationships with our customers through their product knowledge and ability to offer solutions which save the customer’s time. We continue to strive to serve our customers better, using resources such as Personal Book, Fashion Rewards and the ability for our salespeople to seamlessly find inventory anywhere in the company. In 2008, we launched the “Buy Online, Pick Up in Store” service, which allows customers to purchase online, then pick up their item at a Nordstrom store on the same day. We want to create value for our customers through our seamless and unique shopping experience.  

We’ve found that there’s a great deal of opportunity to grow our sales in existing stores simply by earning a greater share of our customers’ business across multiple product categories. We use customer research to better serve our customers’ needs and wants, whether it is a new wardrobe of great foundation pieces or an updated item to enhance their current attire. Our customer still wants newness, fashion, quality and brands. Our goal is to provide all of these items, with a best-in-market selection of versatile and compelling fashion brands. Over the course of 2008, it became clear that value and price sensitivity are important factors to our customers. With a broad merchandise offering, we can adjust our mix without changing who we are or how we are positioned in the market. Our merchants are working hard with our vendors to provide the right balance of quality, value and price points to our customers.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

2008 Overview

 The business environment during 2008 was both challenging and volatile. The first half of the year was relatively stable with quarterly same-store sales decreasing between 6.0% and 6.5%. The second half of 2008 was more volatile as consumers reduced their discretionary spending due to economic concerns and uncertainty, and retailers struggled to align their businesses with significantly lower levels of demand. As a result, our quarterly same-store sales in the second half of 2008 declined between 11.1% and 12.5% and our gross profit was negatively impacted. In response, we needed to make tough choices in the near term while remaining true to our long-term strategy. Even in a challenging and uncertain economy, our strategy remains unchanged in its focus on customers and building strong relationships with them. We strive to provide superior service and compelling merchandise within existing product categories in an effort to grow our share of business with core customers. While the conditions in 2008 required that we significantly reduce expenses, inventory and planned capital expenditures, we believe we have done so while preserving our standards of service, product and shopping experience.  

Our variable cost business model provides flexibility that helps mitigate the impact of slower sales trends on profit margins and cash flows. While we believe our model adjusts well to changing market trends, we took additional actions on expenses, working capital and planned capital expenditures to further mitigate operating margin pressure, improve operating cash flow and maintain a healthy balance sheet. We ended the fiscal year with inventory levels aligned with current sales trends. We followed a disciplined approach to finding and executing expense reduction opportunities and will continue these efforts through 2009. Given the current economic conditions, our capital expenditures in 2009 will be significantly reduced compared to our plan last year. These changes include reducing the number of major full-line store remodels from approximately six per year to approximately two per year. Additionally, the economic environment has affected our real estate development partners, who have delayed or canceled several of our planned new full-line stores. We are continuously monitoring our capital expenditure plans as economic conditions change. Although we have reduced our planned capital expenditures overall, we did not reduce our maintenance expenditures budget, as it is important that we maintain the look, feel and experience of shopping in our stores. Overall, we believe we are well positioned to weather the economic downturn, while maintaining an unwavering focus on our customers and positioning the company for the future.  

Full year earnings before income taxes (“EBT”) decreased $525 from $1,173 in 2007 to $648 in 2008. The Retail Stores, Direct and Other segments produced $491 of this decrease due to lower sales and increased markdowns, partially offset by decreased variable costs and savings in fixed expenses. Our Credit segment contributed $34 of the decline in EBT, as our credit card yields were negatively impacted by higher bad debt expense and lower interest rates.  

As described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, we have reclassified credit card revenues and expenses in our consolidated statements of earnings to more clearly present our credit card business. Credit card revenues include finance charges, late and other fees generated by our combined Nordstrom private label card and Nordstrom VISA credit card programs, and interchange fees generated by the use of Nordstrom VISA cards at third-party merchants. These revenues were previously included in finance charges and other, net in our consolidated statement of earnings. Selling, general and administrative expenses for our credit segment consist of operational and marketing costs incurred to support and service our credit card programs and bad debt expense, and were previously included in total selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of earnings.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 15  
Retail Stores, Direct and Other Segments  

Summary  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1Gross profit is calculated as net sales less Retail Stores, Direct and Other segment cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs.  

Net Sales  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2008 VS 2007 NET SALES

 Net sales declined 6.3% in 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease was due to same-store sales declines in our full-line stores, partially offset by increases in same-store sales for Rack and Direct, as well as new store openings.  

Same-store sales for our full-line stores decreased 12.4% compared to the same period last year. The largest same-store sales decreases came in women’s apparel and men’s apparel. Women’s apparel continues to experience a market-wide downturn and we have seen a decline in men’s apparel correspond to the economic downturn, particularly during the fourth quarter. Regionally, business trends were most challenging in markets undergoing the largest housing price corrections. California was the most challenging region throughout 2008, with same-store sales below the full-line store average. All other regions were above the same-store sales average for full-line stores.  

Our Rack channel had its seventh consecutive year of positive sales growth with a same-store sales increase of 3.1% for the year. Rack purchases merchandise from third parties and also serves as a clearance channel for our full-line stores. The accessories and men’s apparel categories drove this growth. Designer handbags led accessories and premium denim led men’s apparel. All regions contributed to the positive same-store sales results.  

Our Direct channel net sales increased 8.4% for the year, with results driven by accessories, women’s apparel and kids’ merchandise categories. The growth in our Direct business was driven by our efforts to better align our merchandise offering and experience with our full-line stores. Our new “Buy Online, Pick Up in Store” service proved to be a convenient and valued service for our customers over the holiday gift-giving season.  

During 2008 we opened eight new full-line and six new Rack stores. These new stores represent 3.3% of our total net sales for fiscal 2008, and increased our gross square footage by 6.7% during 2008.  

2007 VS 2006 NET SALES

 Total net sales increased 3.1% as a result of same-store sales increases as well as from the three full-line stores and one Rack store opened during fiscal 2007. The 2006 fiscal calendar had 53 weeks compared to our normal operating calendar of 52 weeks. In the 53rd week of 2006, we had sales of $118. Excluding the extra week of sales in fiscal 2006, total sales increased 4.6% in fiscal year 2007. The 53rd week is not included in same-store sales calculations.  

16  
Our full-line stores had a 2.5% same-store sales increase in 2007, on top of a 5.9% increase in 2006. The Midwest, South and Northwest were our strongest performing regions during 2007. By category, our largest same-store sales increases came from our designer apparel, women’s accessories and men’s apparel categories. Designer apparel offers fashion-forward and aspirational products, and customer demand for these products was strong. Women’s accessories benefited from increased sales of handbags and fashion jewelry. The increase in men’s apparel was in part due to growth in our younger contemporary offering.  

Our Rack same-store sales increased 8.7% in 2007, following a 10.9% increase in 2006. The sales growth came from all regions and merchandise categories. Same-store sales were consistent across all regions, which showed high single-digit increases. The largest same-store sales increases were in accessories and men’s apparel. High performance bodywear, watches and sunglasses led the accessories category. The men’s increase reflects sales from premium denim, suits and dress shirts.  

Nordstrom Direct’s 2007 total net sales increased 17.9% to $644. The growth in our Direct business was driven by our efforts to better align our online shopping environment with the customer experience in our full-line stores. This includes aligning our merchandise offering with the full-line stores to create a seamless experience for customers.  

During 2007 we opened three new full-line stores and one new Rack store. These new stores represent 1.0% of our total net sales for fiscal 2007, and increased our gross square footage by 2.6% during 2007.  

2009 FORECAST OF SAME-STORE SALES

 As of March 20, 2009, we have relocated one full-line store and opened two new Rack stores. In total, we plan to open three new full-line stores and eight additional Rack stores during the year. This will increase retail square footage by approximately 3.7%. We expect 2009 same-store sales to decrease approximately 10% to 15%. Based on the pace of business in 2008, same-store sales in the first half of 2009 are expected to be 300 to 400 basis points lower than the projected annual rate.  

Gross Profit  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 1 Gross profit is calculated as net sales less Retail Stores, Direct and Other segment cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs.  

 2 Gross profit rate is calculated as gross profit divided by net sales.  

 3 Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 5-quarter average inventory.   

2008 VS 2007 GROSS PROFIT

 Gross profit dollars decreased $444 from last year while our gross profit rate declined 280 basis points. Our gross profit rate is made up of both merchandise margin rates and buying and occupancy cost rate. The deterioration for the year was driven primarily by a decrease in our merchandise margin rate as we utilized markdowns to respond to slower sales and a more competitive environment. All major merchandise categories at our full-line stores contributed to this decrease. Our buying and occupancy costs as a percentage of sales increased 76 basis points as many of these costs are fixed relative to the sales decline.  

Our average inventory turnover improved slightly over last year while our average inventory per square foot decreased 7.0% compared to the prior year. Our merchants’ efforts to align inventory levels to lower demand resulted in the improvement in our inventory turnover rate and our lower inventory per square foot. Our objective is to match the change in inventory per square foot, which declined 7.0% on average, with our same-store sales rate, which declined 9.0% for the year.  

2007 VS 2006 GROSS PROFIT

 Our gross profit rate in 2007 was consistent with 2006. During 2007 we experienced increasing inventory levels coupled with slower sales trends. To realign our inventory levels, we took higher markdowns during the last half of the year. The increase in markdowns was offset by a decrease in our buying and occupancy costs, which declined due to lower performance-based incentives and from the sale of our Façonnable business in 2007.  

The increase in our average inventory per square foot in 2007 compared with 2006 supported the growth of our designer business in apparel, accessories and shoes. Although we encountered softer sales trends during the latter half of 2007, inventory discipline and growth in sales throughout the year resulted in improvement in our inventory turnover rate, which increased 1.9%.  

2009 FORECAST OF GROSS PROFIT

 In 2009, we expect a 150 to 250 basis point decrease in our gross profit rate. Although we begin 2009 with a good inventory position, we expect continued gross margin pressure as a result of competitive pressure and lower levels of customer demand. We will also incur additional occupancy expense for the three new full-line stores and ten new Rack stores in 2009.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 17  
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Selling, general and administrative rate is calculated as selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Stores, Direct and Other segments as a percentage of net sales.  

2008 VS 2007 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $72 due to lower variable expenses as well as costs savings resulting from our focus on controlling fixed expenses, partially offset by the additional expenses related to our new stores. During 2008, we opened eight new full-line stores and six new Rack stores, which contributed $72 of additional expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 79 basis points. The increase as a percentage of net sales was due to the fixed nature of many of our selling, general and administrative expenses and the impact of declining sales.  

2007 VS 2006 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 Selling, general and administrative expenses were relatively flat in 2007 compared with 2006. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to decreases in our incentive costs tied to company performance.  

2009 FORECAST OF SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 In 2009, our selling, general and administrative dollars are expected to decrease $85 to $175, dependent on our sales performance in 2009. We anticipate our variable expense model to continue to adjust to sales trends. Additionally, continuing to manage headcount to our business, as well as targeted reductions in merit-based salary awards, discretionary spending and marketing and technology will reduce our fixed expenses. We expect $42 of additional selling, general and administrative expenses from new stores, which will partially offset the reduction in fixed and variable expenses.  

We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales to be slightly higher in 2009 compared with 2008, due to the fixed nature of many of these expenses in relation to our expected decline in net sales.  

Gain on Sale of Façonnable

 During the third quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of the Façonnable business in exchange for cash of $216, net of transaction costs, and realized a gain on sale of $34. The impact to reported earnings per diluted share for the year was $0.09, net of tax of $13.  

18  
Credit Segment  

The Nordstrom Credit card products are designed to grow retail sales and customer relationships by providing superior payment products, services and loyalty benefits. We believe that owning our credit card business allows us to fully integrate our rewards program with our retail stores and provide superior service and experience to our customers, thus deepening our relationship with customers and driving higher levels of long-term customer loyalty. Each card enables participation in the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program, through which the customer accumulates points based on their level of spending (two points per dollar spent at Nordstrom and one point per dollar spent outside of Nordstrom stores). Upon reaching two thousand points, customers receive twenty dollars in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores. As customers increase their level of spending they receive additional benefits, including rewards such as complimentary shipping and alterations in our retail stores. We believe the Fashion Rewards program, including these additional rewards, drives sales in our Retail Stores and Direct segments.  

The table below illustrates a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In order to view the total economic contribution of our credit card program, the following items are also included in the table below:  

   •   During 2007, we combined our Nordstrom private label credit card and Nordstrom VISA credit card programs into one securitization program. At this time the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables were brought on-balance sheet. While the underlying economics of the business did not change (Nordstrom has always owned 100% of its Credit segment), the accounting for this business segment did change. For comparability between years, off-balance sheet income (expense), net (credit card revenues, net of bad debt and interest expense) is shown to mitigate the impact of the change in accounting.  

   •   Intercompany merchant fees represents the estimated intercompany income of our credit business from the usage of our cards in the Retail Stores and Direct segments. To encourage the use of Nordstrom cards in our stores, the Credit segment does not charge the Retail Stores and Direct segments an interchange merchant fee. On a consolidated basis, we avoid these costs which would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards.    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 1In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the Nordstrom VISA receivables of $21 are included in other income and expense, net on our consolidated statement of earnings. In the above disclosure this amount is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period.  

2Includes off-balance sheet finance charges and other income of $22 in 2007 and $37 in 2006, off-balance sheet interest expense of $6 in 2007 and $21 in 2006, and off-balance sheet bad debt expense of $7 in 2007 and $22 in 2006.  

CREDIT CARD REVENUES

 Credit card revenues include finance charges, late and other fees, and interchange fees. The majority of our credit accounts have finance charge rates that vary with changes in the prime rate. Interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom.  

Credit card revenues increased from $253 in 2007 to $302 in 2008 in part due to the Nordstrom VISA portfolio being on-balance sheet for a full year in fiscal 2008 compared to only three quarters in fiscal 2007, as well as overall portfolio growth. During the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, the positive impact we saw on finance charge revenue as a result of portfolio growth was partially offset by a significant reduction in the average prime rate as most of our Nordstrom private label and VISA cards have annual percentage rate terms that are tied to the prime rate. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, finance charge revenues improved slightly due to a change in our credit card pricing terms effective November 15, 2008.  

The increase in credit card revenues from $105 in 2006 to $253 in 2007 is due to bringing the Nordstrom VISA portfolio on-balance sheet as of May 1, 2007, as well as portfolio growth year over year.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 19  
INTEREST EXPENSE

 Interest is assigned to the Credit segment proportionate to the amount of debt estimated to fund our credit card receivables, which assumes a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity. The average accounts receivable investment metric included in the table on the previous page represents our best estimate of the amount of capital for our credit card program that is financed by equity. As a means of assigning comparable cost of capital for our credit card business, we believe it is important to maintain a capital structure similar to other financial institutions. Based on our research, we have found that debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. We believe that debt equal to 80% of our credit card receivables is appropriate given our overall capital structure goals.  

Interest expense decreased to $50 in 2008 from $64 in 2007 due to declining variable interest rates, partially offset by higher average borrowings. Interest expense increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher variable interest rates and higher average borrowings due to bringing the Nordstrom VISA portfolio on-balance sheet as well as year over year portfolio growth.  

COST OF SALES

 Cost of sales includes the estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that will be issued and redeemed under the rewards program. The increase in cost of sales expense in 2007 compared with 2006 was due to growth in volume.  

CREDIT SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 Selling, general and administrative expenses for our credit segment are made up of bad debt and operational and marketing expenses, which are summarized in the following table:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the Nordstrom VISA receivables of $21 are included in other income and expense, net on our consolidated statement of earnings. In the above disclosure this amount is included in bad debt expense. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period.  

Bad Debt Expense

 Bad debt expense increased to $173 in 2008 from $107 in 2007 due to increased delinquencies and write-offs reflecting current consumer credit trends, as well as reserves for higher projected losses inherent in the receivables portfolio as of January 31, 2009. Overall, we believe our credit card portfolio remains high quality compared with the credit card industry as a whole, with customers considered to have prime or better credit scores making up approximately 90% of total spending on our credit cards in 2008. While our delinquency and write-off rates have been negatively impacted by the current economic conditions, our rates remain relatively low when compared to the credit card industry average.  

The following table illustrates the allowance for doubtful accounts activity for the past three fiscal years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the Nordstrom VISA receivables of $21 are included in bad debt expense in the selling, general and administrative expenses table above. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period and are not included in the allowance for doubtful accounts activity in the table above for 2007. 

2 Calculated as net write-offs for the combined Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA portfolio as a percentage of average receivables, including average off-balance sheet receivables in 2007 and 2006 of $182 and $816, respectively.  

Operational and Marketing Expense

 Operational and marketing expenses are incurred to support and service our credit card products and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings. Operational and marketing expense increased from $91 in 2007 to $102 in 2008 primarily due to additional marketing expenses as a result of an increase in promotions related to our loyalty program in 2008. The increase in 2007 compared with 2006 was due to the launch of the Fashion Rewards program in 2007.  

20  
OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE, NET

 During 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, other income and expense, net included income related to our retained interest in the Nordstrom VISA receivables, which was held in an off-balance sheet trust during these periods. The decline in other income and expense, net from $109 in 2006 to $18 in 2007 is due to bringing the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on-balance sheet as of May 1, 2007. Prior to this date, income and expenses related to the Nordstrom VISA portfolio were recorded net and included in other income and expense, net. After this date, credit card revenues, as well as bad debt and interest expense are recorded in the respective line items in our consolidated statement of earnings.  

2009 FORECAST OF CREDIT CARD REVENUES AND SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 In 2009, credit card revenues are expected to increase $50 to $55 due primarily to the changes in our credit card pricing terms which were effective November 15, 2008. We anticipate selling, general and administrative expense dollars for our credit segment to be approximately flat to down $15 compared to 2008. In fiscal 2008, the rapid economic deterioration in the fourth quarter led to increased bad debt expense as we increased our reserves in response to anticipated higher delinquencies.  

Total Company Results  

Interest Expense, Net  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2008 VS 2007 INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 Interest expense, net increased $57 in 2008 compared with 2007 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the $1,000 debt offering in the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as the $850 securitization transaction in May 2007.  

2007 VS 2006 INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 We experienced higher interest expense, net, of $74 in 2007 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the issuance of $850 in secured notes in May 2007 and our $1,000 debt offering during the fourth quarter of 2007.  

2009 FORECAST OF INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 We anticipate interest expense, net to increase by $20 to $25 due to the higher cost of debt and higher average debt levels. Additional information about our interest expense and our fixed and variable rate debt is included in Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included as Item 7A of this Form 10-K.  

Income Tax Expense  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2008 VS 2007 INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 The decline in income tax expense for the year correlates to the decline in earnings before income taxes. Our effective tax rate decreased to 38.1% for fiscal 2008 due to a change in our deferred tax assets primarily driven by the closure of several tax years under audit, partially offset by a permanent item related to investment valuation. The net impact of these items increased earnings per diluted share by $0.04.  

2007 VS 2006 INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 Our effective tax rate in 2007 increased from the 2006 rate because of the impact of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”) and changes in our estimates of the carrying value of our deferred tax assets.  

2009 FORECAST OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 In 2009, considering the unfavorable impact of anticipated lower sales, we expect our effective tax rate to be between 39.4% and 39.7%.  

Net Earnings and Earnings per Diluted Share  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2008 VS 2007 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 In 2008, net earnings decreased 43.9% and earnings per diluted share decreased 36.5% as a result of lower sales volume, increased markdowns and higher bad debt expense, partially offset by decreased variable costs and savings in fixed expenses. The decline in earnings per share was also partially offset by the impact of share repurchases, which caused our weighted average shares outstanding to decrease in 2008 compared with 2007.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 21  
2007 VS 2006 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 In 2007, net earnings increased 5.5% and earnings per diluted share increased 12.9% compared with 2006 as a result of same-store sales increases, three full-line stores opened during the year and lower incentive costs tied to company performance. These increases were offset by increased markdowns at our full-line stores and higher bad debt expense. Additionally, earnings per diluted share for 2007 were impacted by the following transactions:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2009 FORECAST OF EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 We expect our earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $1.10 to $1.40 in 2009 primarily due to lower sales volume.  

Fourth Quarter Results

 The business environment during the fourth quarter challenged the retail industry and our company. Our earnings per diluted share were $0.31 for the quarter ended January 31, 2009 compared to $0.92 in the same period last year. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2008 were $68 compared with $212 in 2007.  

Total sales for the quarter decreased 8.5% to $2,301 while same-store sales declined 12.5%. Results in full-line stores continued to be challenging, as same-store sales decreased 15.8% for the quarter. Nordstrom Rack remained one of the top performers amongst its off-price competition with a same-store sales decrease of 1.5%. Women’s apparel and shoes were the Rack categories with same-store sales above the Rack average. Net sales for the Direct segment increased 9.7%, led by the shoes and kids’ apparel divisions.  

Our gross profit rate declined to 32.0% from 37.6% last year as we responded to slower sales trends and the competitive environment with increased markdowns. We continued to make good progress in aligning inventory levels with sales trends, ending the quarter with inventory per square foot down 12% from the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Selling, general and administrative dollars for our Retail Stores, Direct and Other segments were approximately flat compared to last year, while these expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 191 basis points from 23.3% to 25.2%. Although we continued to vigorously control our expenses in the fourth quarter, the impact of declining sales resulted in the rate increase. Our new stores expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008 were $20, which offset expense savings during the quarter.  

In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative expenses for our credit segment were $90, up from $52 in 2007. The increase was primarily driven by higher bad debt expense from increased delinquencies and write-offs.  

For further information on our quarterly results in 2008 and 2007, refer to Note 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

22  
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as follows:  

   ROIC =    Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT)      

       Average Invested Capital          

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented. When read in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared to return on assets, it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. Over the past several years, we have incorporated ROIC into our key financial metrics, and since 2005 have used it as an executive incentive measure. Our research has shown historically that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders’ return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2009, our ROIC decreased to 11.6% compared to 19.4% for the 12 fiscal months ended February 2, 2008. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under United States GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See our ROIC reconciliation to GAAP below. The closest GAAP measure is return on assets, which decreased to 7.0% from 13.1% for the 12 months ended January 31, 2009 compared to the 12 months ended February 2, 2008. The following is a reconciliation of return on assets and ROIC:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our ROIC declined primarily due to a decrease in our earnings before interest and income taxes compared to the prior year as well as an increase in our average invested capital. The increase in average invested capital compared to the prior year is primarily due to the securitization transaction on May 1, 2007, which brought the entire portfolio of Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on-balance sheet as of that date.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 23  
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

 The following discussion of Liquidity and Capital Resources reflects the effects of the correction discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to minimize our need for short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows and available credit facilities are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months.  

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, strengthen our financial position and maintain flexibility for future strategic initiatives. We continuously assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, principal debt payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions. We believe our operating cash flows and available credit facilities, as well as any potential future borrowing facilities, will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.  

In 2008 cash decreased by $286 to $72 as of January 31, 2009. The decrease was driven by capital expenditures of $563, returns to our shareholders through dividends and repurchases of our common stock totaling $402, and purchases made by our customers for third-party merchandise and services using Nordstrom VISA credit cards of $232. These decreases were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $848.  

Operating Activities

 The majority of our operating cash inflows are related to sales to our customers, including the collection of accounts receivable. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our inventory vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits, and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short and long-term borrowings.  

2008 VS 2007 OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 Net cash provided by operating activities increased from $312 in 2007 to $848 in 2008. In 2007, the conversion of our Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables into an on-balance sheet securitization program reduced cash provided by operating activities by $663. As a result of this transaction, we recorded the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on our consolidated balance sheet and eliminated our investment in asset backed securities. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared with 2007 was also due to lower variable expenses, fixed cost reductions and a decrease in cash paid for taxes in 2008. These increases were offset by the impact of declining sales in 2008 as well as an increase in cash paid for interest.  

2009 FORECAST OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 In 2009, we expect our operating cash flows to decline as a result of lower sales.  

Investing Activities

 Our investing cash flows typically consist of capital expenditures and, beginning in the second quarter of 2007, customer purchases (net of payments) for goods and services outside of Nordstrom using the Nordstrom VISA credit cards.  

2008 VS 2007 INVESTING ACTIVITIES

 Net cash used in investing activities increased $371 to $792 in 2008, primarily due to an increase in third-party purchases using the Nordstrom VISA credit cards and an increase in capital expenditures. Additionally, the sale of our Façonnable business in 2007 partially offset investing cash outflows in the prior year.  

In 2008, we experienced growth in our Nordstrom VISA credit receivables related to purchases made by our customers for merchandise and services outside of Nordstrom. This drove an increase in cash used for accounts receivable originated at third parties, which was $232 in 2008 compared with $151 in 2007. The Nordstrom VISA credit cards enable our customers to purchase at merchants outside of Nordstrom and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program (two points per dollar spent at Nordstrom and one point per dollar spent outside of Nordstrom stores). Upon reaching two thousand points, customers receive twenty dollars in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores. We believe participation in the Fashion Rewards program has resulted in beneficial shifts in customer spending patterns and incremental sales in our stores.  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

 Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,328, with $563 in 2008, $501 in 2007 and $264 in 2006. With these capital expenditures, we added stores, enhanced existing facilities and improved our information systems. The largest components of these expenditures were for new or relocated stores and store remodels. We also received property incentives from our developers of $119 in 2008, $58 in 2007 and $31 in 2006. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows, however operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, for the last three years by category are summarized in the following table:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

24  
The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity during 2008:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2008 we opened eight full-line stores (Aventura Mall in Aventura, Florida; Ala Moana Center in Honolulu, Hawaii; Burlington Mall in Burlington, Massachusetts; Partridge Creek in Clinton Township, Michigan; Thousand Oaks in Thousand Oaks, California; Fashion Mall in Indianapolis, Indiana; Ross Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Waterside in Naples, Florida), relocated one full-line store (Tacoma Mall in Tacoma, Washington), and opened six Rack stores (City Center in White Plains, New York; Laguna Hills Mall in Laguna Hills, California; Springbrook Prairie Pavilion in Naperville, Illinois; Legacy Village in Lyndhurst, Ohio; Liberty Tree Mall in Danvers, Massachusetts; and The Rim in San Antonio, Texas). Together these openings increased our gross square footage by 6.7%.  

2009 AND LONG-TERM CAPITAL EXPENDITURES FORECAST

 During 2008 we made adjustments to our capital plan as a result of developer delays due to the current economic conditions. With these changes, we delayed two planned store openings originally planned for 2009. To date in 2009, we have relocated one full-line store and opened two new Rack stores. During the remainder of 2009, we anticipate opening three new full-line stores and eight additional new Rack stores.  

We expect that our capital expenditures (net of property incentives) will be approximately $2,100 over the next five years, with approximately $325 planned for 2009. Over these five years, we plan to use 47% of this investment to build new and relocated stores, 28% on remodels (major and minor), 12% on information technology and 13% for other projects. Our current five-year plans include 28 new stores announced through 2013, which represents an 11% increase in square footage. Almost half of these stores will be in the Northeast and South. We have also reduced the number of major full-line store remodels from approximately six per year to approximately two per year. We believe that we have the capacity to address additional capital investments should opportunities arise.  

As of January 31, 2009, we were contractually committed to spend $54 for constructing new stores, remodeling existing stores, and other capital projects.  

Financing Activities

 Our net cash used in financing activities was $342 in 2008 compared with $64 provided by financing activities in 2007. In 2008, our financing activities consisted of $250 in principal paid related to our 5.625% senior notes, dividend payments of $138, and share repurchases of $264, partially offset by $275 of proceeds from commercial paper issuances.  

2008 SHORT AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY

 During 2008, we issued $150 in notes using our 2007-A Variable Funding Note (“VFN”) facility, which were repaid in full as of January 31, 2009. We also issued commercial paper, ending the year with outstanding borrowings of $275. The majority of the outstanding commercial paper as of year-end was used to repay our $250 senior notes, which we retired in January 2009.  

DIVIDENDS  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2008, we paid dividends of $0.64 per share, the twelfth consecutive year that our annual dividends increased. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, and balance the dividend payment with our operating performance and capital resources. For the dividend yield, which is calculated as our dividends per share divided by our stock price, we plan to target a 1.0% to 1.5% long-term yield. We will balance any potential future dividend changes with our operating performance and available capital resources.  

In February 2009, we declared a first quarter dividend of $0.16 per share, which is consistent with 2008.  

2008 SHARE REPURCHASES

 Our reported results for 2008 include $264 in share repurchases. During 2008 we repurchased 6.9 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $238, at an average price per share of $34.29. In addition, our results for the period include the settlement of $26 in repurchases initiated in the fourth quarter of 2007. In August 2007 our Board of Directors authorized a $1,500 share repurchase program and in November 2007 authorized an additional $1,000 for share repurchases, bringing the total program to $2,500. Although the program will not expire until August 2009, we suspended our share repurchase program in September 2008. We may resume the program in the future if economic conditions improve. As of January 31, 2009, we had $1,126 in remaining capacity under our share repurchase program. The actual amount and timing of future share repurchases will be subject to market conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 25  
Credit Capacity and Commitments

 The following table summarizes our credit capacity, the amounts outstanding and the expiration per period:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our 2007-A Variable Funding Note facility is backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a capacity of $300. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third-party bank conduit plus specified fees. We pay a commitment fee for the note based on the size of the commitment and the amount of borrowings outstanding.  

Our $100 variable funding facility is backed by the remaining 10% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables and is available as liquidity support to our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb. As of January 31, 2009, no issuances have been made against this facility. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third-party bank conduit plus specified fees.  

During 2008, we increased our short-term borrowing capacity by exercising the $150 accordion feature on our revolving credit facility. The accordion feature allowed us to increase our existing $500 unsecured line of credit to $650. In conjunction with the increase of our unsecured line of credit, we also increased our $500 commercial paper program to $650. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing our borrowing capacity under the line of credit by an amount equal to the principal amount of the commercial paper.  

Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. Our unsecured line of credit expires in November 2010.  

We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the terms of the registration statement, and subject to the filing of certain post-effective amendments, we are authorized to issue an unlimited principal amount of debt securities.  

We are continuing to monitor the credit markets to determine the best time to refinance with long-term debt. Our next debt maturity is a $350 securitized note due in April 2010.  

Debt Covenants

 Our borrowing facilities include restrictive covenants, including the following significant restrictions:  

   Facility   Description of Covenant    

   2007-A $300 variable funding note   Standard and Poor's BB+ and Moody's Ba1 ratings or better  

   $100 variable funding note   Standard and Poor's BB+ and Moody's Ba1 ratings or better  

   $650 commercial paper/unsecured line of credit   Leverage ratio (“Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR” not greater than approximately four times)  

As of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 we were in compliance with these covenants. We will monitor each of these covenants closely in 2009 to ensure that we make any necessary adjustments to our plans and believe that we will remain in compliance with this covenant during 2009. See additional disclosure of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR on the following page.  

The following table shows our credit ratings at the date of this report:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These ratings could change depending on our performance and other factors. Our 2007-A VFN, which matures in November 2009, and our $100 variable funding facility can be cancelled or not renewed if our debt ratings fall below Standard and Poor’s BB+ rating or Moody’s Ba1 rating. Our other outstanding debt is not subject to termination or interest rate adjustments based on changes in our credit ratings. We are currently four ratings above the minimum for our Standard and Poor’s covenant requirements, and two ratings above the minimum for our Moody’s covenant requirements.  

26  
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

 We define Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (“EBITDAR”) as follows:  

 Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR =

    Adjusted Debt   Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (EBITDAR)          

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal today is to manage debt levels at a point which we believe will help us maintain an investment grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of January 31, 2009, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.5 compared to 1.8 at the end of 2007. The increase was the result of a decrease in EBITDAR in 2008 compared with 2007, driven primarily by a reduction in net earnings from $715 in 2007 to $401 in 2008.  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:  

   •   Adjusted Debt is our best estimate of the total company debt we would incur if we had purchased the property associated with our operating leases.  

   •   EBITDAR does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, including leases, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt.  

   •   Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.    

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings (see our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR reconciliation to GAAP below). The closest GAAP measure is debt to net earnings, which was 6.3 and 3.5 for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following is a reconciliation of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 1   The components of adjusted debt are as of the end of 2008 and 2007, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008.  

 2   Debt includes $275 of outstanding commercial paper borrowings as of January 31, 2009. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of February 2, 2008.  

 3   The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate adjusted debt is our best estimate of the debt we would record for our leases which are classified as operating, if they had met criteria for a capital lease, or if we had purchased the property.  

 4   The decrease in rent expense is primarily due to the sale of our Façonnable business in the third quarter of 2007.    

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 27  
Contractual Obligations

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 31, 2009. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,534 as of January 31, 2009, payable over the remaining life of the debts.  

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves, postretirement benefits and a portion of our Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”) reserves. The repayment amounts presented above were determined based on historical payment trends. We expect to pay $13 of uncertain tax positions under FIN 48 in the next 12 months and include this balance in other long-term liabilities as due in less than one year. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows for the remaining FIN 48 balance and have excluded this from the table above. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above.  

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments.  

This table also excludes the short-term liabilities, other than the current portion of long-term debt, disclosed on our 2008 consolidated balance sheet, as the amounts recorded for these items will be paid in the next year.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

 The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we feel are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the company’s disclosures that follow.  

Inventory

 Our merchandise inventories are primarily stated at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. As our inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin. Among others, the significant estimates used in inventory valuation are obsolescence and shrinkage.  

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of net sales for the period from the most recent semi-annual inventory count based on historical shrinkage results. Therefore, our obsolescence reserve and shrinkage percentage contain uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.  

Management does not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In prior years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence and shrinkage reserves. We do not believe a 10% change in the obsolescence reserve or our shrink percentage would have a material effect on our net earnings.  

Revenue Recognition

 We recognize revenues net of estimated returns and we exclude sales taxes. Our retail stores record revenue at the point of sale. Our catalog and online sales include shipping revenue and are recorded upon estimated delivery to the customer. As part of the normal sales cycle, we receive customer merchandise returns. To recognize the financial impact of sales returns, we estimate the amount of goods that will be returned and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly. Inherent in establishing and maintaining a sales return reserve are management judgments around customer return patterns and return rates. We utilize historical return patterns to estimate our expected returns.  

28  
Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $4 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 31, 2009.  

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

 Our allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate of the losses inherent in our Nordstrom private label card and Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date. We evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on several factors, including historical trends of aging of accounts, write-off experience and expectations of future performance. We recognize finance charges on delinquent accounts until the account is written off. Delinquent accounts are written off when they are determined to be uncollectible, usually after the passage of 151 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. Management believes the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card accounts receivable under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above or in general economic conditions could materially change these expectations. In prior years, we have not made material changes to our estimates involved in the allowance for doubtful accounts. A 10% change in our allowance for doubtful accounts would have affected net earnings by $9 for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009.  

Income Taxes

 In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we calculate income taxes using the asset and liability approach. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and respective tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which we expect those temporary differences to reverse. As audits of income tax returns for prior years are completed, adjustments may occur related to previously recorded deferred taxes. These potential adjustments, if any, are not expected to be material.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

 In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141(R)”). Under SFAS 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific acquisition-related items, including expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred, valuing noncontrolling interests (minority interests) at fair value at the acquisition date, and expensing restructuring costs associated with an acquired business. SFAS 141(R) also includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements. SFAS 141(R) is to be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. Generally, the effect of SFAS 141(R) will depend on the circumstances of any potential future acquisition.  

Also in December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51 (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in a subsidiary, provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of the deconsolidation of a subsidiary, and increases transparency through expanded disclosures. Specifically, SFAS 160 requires the recognition of a minority interest as equity in the consolidated financial statements and separate from the parent company’s equity. It also requires consolidated net earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings to include the amount of net earnings attributable to minority interest. This statement will be effective for Nordstrom as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. We do not believe the impact of the adoption of SFAS 160 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-2, (“FSP FAS 157-2”), which delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We are presently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 157 for our nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and do not believe it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.  

In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, Disclosures About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (“SFAS 161”). SFAS 161 expands the disclosure requirements in SFAS 133 about an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities. This statement will be effective for Nordstrom as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009. We do not believe the impact of the adoption of SFAS 161 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 29  
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.