Part I  

Item 1. Business.   

Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley is a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2009, Morgan Stanley had 61,388* employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31 of each year, beginning January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company had a one month transition reporting period in December 2008. Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 (“2009”), November 30, 2008 (“fiscal 2008”), November 30, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”) and the one month ended December 31, 2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Available Information.  

Morgan Stanley files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.  

Morgan Stanley’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access Morgan Stanley’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:  

   •    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;  

   •    Amended and Restated Bylaws;  

 * Worldwide employees includes headcount related to the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture.  

1  

Table of Contents 

   •    Charters for its Audit Committee; Internal Audit Subcommittee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; Nominating and Governance Committee; and Risk Committee;  

   •    Corporate Governance Policies;  

   •    Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;  

   •    Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;  

   •    Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;  

   •    Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;  

   •    Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;  

   •    Code of Conduct; and  

   •    Integrity Hotline information.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Finance Director and Controller. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan Stanley’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Business Segments.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments follows.  

Institutional Securities includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (“MSSB”), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.  

Asset Management provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.  

Institutional Securities.  

Morgan Stanley provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.  

Financial Advisory Services. Morgan Stanley provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Capital Raising. Morgan Stanley manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Corporate Lending. Morgan Stanley provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan Stanley*. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.  

Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. Morgan Stanley’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities include Equity Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities; and Clients and Services.  

Equity Trading. Morgan Stanley acts as principal (including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

Morgan Stanley’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors.  

Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies. Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit, currency and other fixed income-linked notes, and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money-market and other short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. Federal Government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley is also a primary dealer or market maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.  

 * Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in “Sales and Trading Activities.”  

3  

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions globally in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in major foreign currencies, such as the Japanese yen, euro, British pound, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, as well as in emerging markets currencies. Morgan Stanley trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, Morgan Stanley acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.  

Morgan Stanley advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley structures debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

Commodities. Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns an interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

Clients and Services. Morgan Stanley provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley’s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.  

Investments. Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or principal investing activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are investments and capital commitments provided to public and private companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley.  

Morgan Stanley sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management.”  

4  

Table of Contents 

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in MSSB, provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of over 18,000 global representatives in approximately 895 locations at year end. As of December 31, 2009, Morgan Stanley had $1,560 billion in client assets.  

Clients.  

Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Financial advisors are located in branches across the U.S., and provide solutions designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Global Wealth Management Group offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Australia and Latin America.  

Products and Services.   

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) and third-party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Global Wealth Management Group also offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services and annuity and other insurance products.  

In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients access to several cash management services through various affiliates, including cash sweeps, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products, including securities based lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Global Wealth Management Group also offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

As a result of the MSSB joint venture, most of the operations and technology supporting the Global Wealth Management Group are provided either by Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments or by Citi. Pursuant to contractual agreements, Morgan Stanley and Citi perform various  

5  

Table of Contents 

 broker-dealer related functions, such as execution and clearing of brokerage transactions, margin lending and custody of client assets. For Morgan Stanley, these activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties. Morgan Stanley and Citi provide certain other services and systems to support the Global Wealth Management Group, including through transition services agreements with MSSB.  

Asset Management.  

Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business segment is one of the largest global asset management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers individual and institutional clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Currently, Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands. Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets. Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.  

Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha strategies, including FrontPoint Partners LLC, a leading provider of absolute return strategies. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investments platform also includes minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners, Avenue Capital Group and Traxis Partners LP. Morgan Stanley’s Merchant Banking Division includes Morgan Stanley’s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

On October 19, 2009, as part of a restructuring of Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business segment, Morgan Stanley entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of its retail asset management business, including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. (“Van Kampen”), to Invesco Ltd. (“Invesco”). This transaction allows Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business segment to focus on its institutional client base. Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Invesco will purchase substantially all of Morgan Stanley’s retail asset management business, operating under both the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands, in a stock and cash transaction. Morgan Stanley will receive a 9.4% minority interest in Invesco. The transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in mid-2010, subject to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals.  

Institutional Investors.  

Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, large intermediaries, private funds, non-profit organizations, foundations, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles. Morgan Stanley also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.  

Individual Investors.  

Morgan Stanley offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are available to individual investors through  

6  

Table of Contents 

 affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells mutual funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed through affiliated broker-dealers.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services, on behalf of institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Research.  

Morgan Stanley’s research department (“Research”) coordinates globally across all of Morgan Stanley’s businesses. Research consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are disseminated to investors through third party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley’s sales forces.  

Competition.  

All aspects of Morgan Stanley’s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan Stanley’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in Morgan Stanley’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product basis.  

Morgan Stanley’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on Morgan Stanley’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and  

7  

Table of Contents 

 sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to remain competitive.  

Morgan Stanley has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

Asset Management.  

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including Morgan Stanley’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.  

Supervision and Regulation.  

As a major financial services firm, Morgan Stanley is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it operates. Moreover, in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way Morgan Stanley is regulated and conducts its business.  

Regulatory Outlook.  

It is likely that the year 2010 and subsequent years will see material changes in the way that major financial institutions are regulated both in the U.S. and worldwide. The reforms being discussed include several that contemplate comprehensive restructuring of the regulation of the financial services industry. Enactment of such measures likely would lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important firms in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions, liabilities and employee compensation as well as reforms of the OTC derivatives markets, such as mandated exchange trading and clearing, position limits, margin, capital and registration requirements. Other changes under discussion in the U.S. legislative arena include: breaking up firms that are considered “too big to fail” or mandating certain barriers between their activities in order to allow for an orderly resolution of failing financial institutions; curtailing the ability of firms that own Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)-insured institutions to also engage in private equity, hedge fund and proprietary trading activities; requiring firms to maintain plans for their dissolution; requiring the financial industry to pay into a fund designed to help unwind failing firms; providing regulators with new means of limiting activities of financial firms; regulating  

8  

Table of Contents 

 compensation in the financial services industry; enhancing corporate governance, especially regarding risk management; and creating a new agency, the “Consumer Financial Protection Agency,” to protect U.S. consumers who buy financial products.  

Reforms are being discussed concurrently in Washington, London, the European Union (“EU”) and other major market centers in which Morgan Stanley operates, and attempts are being made to internationally coordinate the principles behind such changes through the G-20’s expanded mandate for the Financial Stability Board and through the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel Committee”), the International Association of Securities Commissioners and others. Among the internationally coordinated reforms are recent measures and proposals by the Basel Committee to raise the quality of capital, increase capital requirements for securitizations, trading book exposure and counterparty credit risk exposure, and globally introduce a leverage ratio, capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements, among other measures. In both the EU and the U.S., moreover, changes to the institutional framework for financial regulation are being discussed or are underway.  

Many of the market reforms, if enacted, may materially affect Morgan Stanley’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. In particular, if systemic regulation were enacted, Morgan Stanley would likely be designated as a systemically important firm, and the consequences of systemic regulation, including a potential requirement for additional higher quality capital and liquidity and decreased leverage, could materially impact Morgan Stanley’s business.  

A substantial number of the financial reforms currently discussed in the U.S. and globally may become law, though it is difficult to predict which will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on Morgan Stanley’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. As most changes, if adopted, will require regulatory implementation, the full impact of these changes will not be known until a later stage. 

Financial Holding Company.  

Since September 2008, Morgan Stanley has operated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act.  

U.S. Banking Institutions. Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”), primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers consumer lending and commercial lending services in addition to deposit products. As an FDIC-insured national bank, MSBNA is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”).  

Morgan Stanley Trust is a wholly owned subsidiary that conducts, through a subsidiary, certain mortgage lending activities primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). Morgan Stanley Trust also conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other activities. It is an FDIC-insured federal savings bank whose activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision.  

Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a non-depository national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary and custody activities, primarily personal trust and prime brokerage custody services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is able to engage in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. Unless otherwise required by the Fed, Morgan Stanley is permitted to commence any new financial activity, or acquire a company engaged in any financial activity, as long as it provides after–the–fact notice of such new activity or investment to the Fed. Morgan Stanley must obtain the prior approval of the Fed before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution or bank holding company or commencing any activity that is complementary to a financial activity. Under some reform proposals, any non-banking acquisition of more than $25 billion in assets would require prior Fed approval, and regulators would be given new means to limit activities.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley believes that most of the activities it conducted before becoming a financial holding company remain permissible. In addition, the BHC Act gives Morgan Stanley two years after becoming a financial holding company to conform its existing nonfinancial activities and investments to the requirements of the BHC Act with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years. The BHC Act also grandfathers any “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that Morgan Stanley conducted any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 and provided that certain other conditions that are within Morgan Stanley’s reasonable control are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness.  

It is possible that certain of Morgan Stanley’s existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible financial activities, or incidental or complementary to such activities or otherwise grandfathered. If so, Morgan Stanley may be required to divest them before the end of the original two-year or subsequent one-year grace periods discussed above. Morgan Stanley does not believe that any such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.  

Consolidated Supervision. As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed. This means that Morgan Stanley is, among other things, subject to the Fed’s risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements for bank holding companies. The Fed has the authority to conduct on-site examinations of Morgan Stanley and any of its affiliates, subject to coordinating with any state or federal functional regulator of any particular affiliate.  

In order to maintain Morgan Stanley’s status as a financial holding company, its depository institution subsidiaries must remain well capitalized and well managed. Reform proposals would also base such financial holding company status on maintaining a well capitalized and well managed standard at the Morgan Stanley holding company level. If designated a systemically important firm, Morgan Stanley would be required, pursuant to such reform proposals, to remain well capitalized and well managed at all times. Under current regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the parent financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to make acquisitions or otherwise conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, as a last resort if the deficiencies persist, the Fed may order a financial holding company to cease the conduct of or to divest those businesses engaged in activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the Fed must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.  

Capital Standards. The Basel Committee and the Fed are rethinking the scope, strength and nature of the capital requirements that should apply to global financial institutions like Morgan Stanley.  

The Basel Committee has opened a broad-based consultation on capital, liquidity and leverage ratios that is expected to be complete by the end of 2010, with implementation for most measures by the end of 2012, and in some cases earlier. The results of this consultation, in the form eventually implemented into U.S. law by the Fed and other U.S. banking regulators, are expected, among other aspects, to increase requirements as to the quality of capital, with greater emphasis on common stock as the predominant form of capital, to enhance capital requirements for trading book exposures, securitizations and counterparty credit risk exposure, to institute capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements, and to implement on a more global basis the leverage ratio concept, a version of which is currently applied only by U.S. regulators. The exact scope and scale of these capital changes are currently not known. Even under current standards, the Fed generally requires Morgan Stanley and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Current U.S. risk–based capital and leverage guidelines require Morgan Stanley’s capital–to–assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to risk–weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% in order to qualify as well capitalized and for the holding company parent to be able to qualify as a financial holding company.  

Morgan Stanley currently calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Fed, which are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as “Basel I.” U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Accord into the existing risk–based capital requirements and Morgan Stanley is working with its regulators accordingly to transition to these requirements.  

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total book assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for each quarter. The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered “strong” under Fed guidelines or which have implemented the Fed’s risk–based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.  

Reform proposals affecting the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, and increases in the amount of capital, including more restrictive leverage ratios, capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements could adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s ability to generate return on capital, to pay dividends, or could require Morgan Stanley to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact its shareholders or creditors.  

See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

Dividends. In addition to certain dividend restrictions that apply by law to certain of Morgan Stanley’s subsidiaries, as described below, the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and other Morgan Stanley depository institution subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. It is Fed policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also Fed policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries.  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. or Morgan Stanley Trust, and not to their parent holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley. The Fed is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. All pending proposals in the U.S. would broaden the Fed’s or appropriate regulator’s ability to take prompt corrective action against a systemically important financial institution.  

Transactions with Affiliates. Morgan Stanley’s domestic subsidiary banks are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits on the total amount of credit exposure that they may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms.  

11  

Table of Contents 

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As FDIC-insured depository institutions, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust are exposed to each other’s losses. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2009, the FDIC levied a special assessment of 5% on each insured depository institution’s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, capped at 10% of its domestic deposits. In addition, the FDIC required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The FDIC also adopted a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011. All measures were part of an effort to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition, by participating in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust have temporarily become subject to an additional assessment on deposits in excess of $250,000 in certain transaction accounts. Some of the pending legislative proposals would further increase Morgan Stanley’s FDIC assessments, which, if enacted, may materially affect Morgan Stanley’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  

Anti-Money Laundering.  

Morgan Stanley’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “BSA/USA PATRIOT Act”), imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, future commission merchants, and mutual funds to identify and verify customers that maintain accounts. The BSA/USA PATRIOT Act also mandates that financial institutions have policies, procedures and internal processes in place to monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Financial institutions subject to the BSA/USA PATRIOT Act also must designate a BSA/AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals, and other multi-national organizations and governmental agencies worldwide.  

Anti-Corruption.  

Morgan Stanley is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. Morgan Stanley is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws, rules, and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

Protection of Client Information.  

Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data Protection Directive in the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Research.  

Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. Morgan Stanley’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. In addition, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Fed’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, Morgan Stanley’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges and other regulatory authorities. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some case, liquidity requirements that apply to Morgan Stanley’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or more liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “Consolidated Supervision” and “Capital Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Compliance with regulatory capital liquidity requirements may limit Morgan Stanley’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital liquidity requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital liquidity infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.  

MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ securities accounts held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000 for claims for cash balances. To supplement this SIPC  

13  

Table of Contents 

 coverage, MS&Co. has purchased additional protection for the benefit of its customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for all clients up to the remaining net equity securities balance in their accounts, subject to the firmwide cap of $1 billion.  

Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities. The commodities activities in the Institutional Securities business segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.  

Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan Stanley’s commodities activities are also subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.  

Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities. As registered futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity futures exchanges. Morgan Stanley’s futures and options-on-futures businesses are also regulated by the National Futures Association (the “NFA”), a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and certain of its affiliates are members. These regulatory requirements differ for clearing and non-clearing firms, and they address obligations related to, among other things, the registration of the futures commission merchant and certain of its associated persons, membership with the NFA, the segregation of customer funds and the holding apart of a secured amount, the receipt of an acknowledgement of certain written risk disclosure statements, the receipt of trading authorizations, the furnishing of daily confirmations and monthly statements, recordkeeping and reporting obligations, the supervision of accounts, and antifraud prohibitions. Among other things, the NFA has rules covering a wide variety of areas such as advertising, telephone solicitations, risk disclosure, discretionary trading, disclosure of fees, minimum capital requirements, reporting and proficiency testing. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisers (“CTAs”) and/or commodity pool operators (“CPOs”), or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC Rules and other guidance. Under CFTC and NFA Rules, CTAs that manage accounts must distribute disclosure documents, and maintain specified records relating to their activities and clients. Under CFTC and NFA rules, CPOs have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they operate. For each pool, a CPO must prepare and distribute a disclosure document; distribute periodic account statements; prepare and distribute audited annual financial reports; and keep specified records concerning the participants, transactions, and operations of each pool, as well as records regarding transactions of the CPO and its principals. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

Non-U.S. Regulation. Morgan Stanley’s businesses are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe, regulate Morgan Stanley’s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche Bôrse AG and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgenôssische Finanzmarktaufsicht regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the  

14  

Table of Contents 

 Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Asset Management.  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC and, in certain states, some employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.  

Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Singapore.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to Morgan Stanley’s regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” herein.  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 26, 2010 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

John J. Mack (65). Chairman of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (since June 2005). Chief Executive Officer (June 2005 to December 2009). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).  

James P. Gorman (51).  President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010) and Chairman of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (since June 2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008). Head of Corporate Acquisitions Strategy and Research at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).  

Ruth Porat (52). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial Sponsors Group (July 2004 to September 2006) within the Investment Banking Division.  

Colm Kelleher (52). Executive Vice President and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).  

15  

Table of Contents 

Paul J. Taubman (49). Executive Vice President and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Global Head of Investment Banking (January 2008 to December 2009). Global Co-Head of Investment Banking (July 2007 to January 2008) Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department (May 2005 to July 2007). Global Co-Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department (December 2003 to May 2005).  

Gregory J. Fleming (46). Executive Vice President and President of Asset Management and Research of Morgan Stanley (since February 2010). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May 2007–February 2008). Executive Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).  

Charles D. Johnston (56). Executive Vice President of Morgan Stanley and President of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (since January 2010). President of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (June 2009 to January 2010). President, Global Wealth Management U.S. and Canada, at Citi Smith Barney (March 2008 to June 2009) President and Chief Executive Officer of Smith Barney (January 2005 to March 2008).  

Walid Chammah (55). Executive Vice President of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since January 2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009). Head of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2002 to August 2005).  

Thomas R. Nides (49). Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley and Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (September 2005 to December 2009). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chairman of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association since October 2009.  

Gary G. Lynch (59). Vice Chairman (since May 2009) and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive Vice Chairman (July 2004 to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July 2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell (September 1989 to October 2001).  

Kenneth M. deRegt (54). Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since February 2008). Managing Director of Aetos Capital, LLC, an investment management firm (December 2002 to February 2008).  

16  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.