PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

General

Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the "Company") have approximately 128,100 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. Johnson & Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 275 operating companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the world. The Company’s primary focus has been on products related to human health and well-being. Johnson & Johnson was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1887.

The Company’s structure is based on the principle of decentralized management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments. Within the strategic parameters provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S. and international operating companies are each responsible for their own strategic plans, as well as the day-to-day operations of those companies, and each subsidiary within the business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens of the country where it is located.

Segments of Business

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of segments and operating results under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and Note 18 “Segments of Business and Geographic Areas” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.

Consumer

The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women’s health fields, as well as nutritionals, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products and wellness and prevention platforms. The Baby Care franchise includes the JOHNSON’S® Baby line of products. Major brands in the Skin Care franchise include the AVEENO®; CLEAN & CLEAR®; DABAO™; JOHNSON’S® Adult; LUBRIDERM®; NEUTROGENA®; RoC®; and VENDÔME® product lines. Brands in the Oral Care franchise include the LISTERINE® oral care lines. The Wound Care franchise includes BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages and NEOSPORIN® First Aid products. Major brands in the Women’s Health franchise outside of North America are STAYFREE® and CAREFREE® sanitary pad and o.b.® tampon brands. The principal nutritional line is SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener. Over-the-counter medicines include the broad family of TYLENOL® acetaminophen products; SUDAFED® cold, flu and allergy products; ZYRTEC® allergy products; MOTRIN® IB ibuprofen products; and PEPCID® line of heartburn products. These products are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world.

Pharmaceutical

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, infectious diseases, metabolic, neurology, oncology, pain management and vaccines. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription use. Key products in the Pharmaceutical segment include: REMICADE® (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI® (golimumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing spondylitis and moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; STELARA® (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis; INCIVO® (telaprevir), for the treatment of hepatitis C; INTELENCE® (etravirine) and PREZISTA® (darunavir), treatments for HIV/AIDS; CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl) extended-release tablets CII, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; INVEGA® (paliperidone) extended-release tablets, for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder; INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION® (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults; RISPERDAL® CONSTA® (risperidone), for the treatment of schizophrenia and for the maintenance treatment of Bipolar I Disorder; VELCADE® (bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma; ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate), a treatment for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer; ACIPHEX®/PARIET®, a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.; PROCRIT® (epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as EPREX®), to stimulate red blood cell production; and XARELTO® (rivaroxaban), an oral anticoagulant for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, for the treatment of DVT and PE, and for the reduction in the risk of recurrence of DVT and PE.

1
Medical Devices and Diagnostics

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, used principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, and clinics. These include products to treat cardiovascular disease; orthopaedic and neurological products; blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; general surgery, biosurgical, and energy products; professional diagnostic products; infection prevention products; and disposable contact lenses. 

Geographic Areas

The business of Johnson & Johnson is conducted by more than 275 operating companies located in 60 countries, including the United States, which sell products in virtually all countries throughout the world. The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under “— Segments of Business — Consumer,” “— Pharmaceutical” and “— Medical Devices and Diagnostics.” However, the principal markets, products and methods of distribution in the international business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include not only those developed in the United States, but also those developed by subsidiaries abroad.

Investments and activities in some countries outside the United States are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and commercial climate may be influenced by restrictive economic policies and political uncertainties.

Raw Materials

Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily available from multiple sources. Where there are exceptions, the temporary unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the Company. 

Patents and Trademarks

The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible. They own or are licensed under a number of patents relating to their products and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to the Company in the operation of its businesses. Sales of the Company’s largest product, REMICADE® (infliximab), accounted for approximately 9.4% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2013. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company.

There are two sets of patents related to REMICADE® (infliximab). The first set of patents is co-owned by Janssen Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, and New York University Medical Center (NYU). Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to NYU's interests in the patents. Patents have been granted in the United States, certain countries in the European Union (certain of these patents have been extended by Supplementary Patent Certificates), and Australia. In the United States, the patent expires in September 2018. These patents expired in Canada in March 2012. In certain countries in Europe the patent has been extended to February 2015 (Germany, Spain, United Kingdom, Sweden, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands). In Australia, the patent expires in March 2017. 

The second set of patents related to REMICADE® was granted to the Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology in the United Kingdom in Europe, Canada, Australia and the United States. Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to these patents which expire in 2017 outside of the United States and 2018 in the United States. The validity of these patents has been

challenged and is currently in litigation.

Loss of exclusivity for REMICADE® in the above-mentioned markets may result in a reduction in sales. Johnson & Johnson does not expect that any additional extensions will be available for the patents related to REMICADE®.

In addition to competing in the immunology market with REMICADE®, the Company is currently marketing STELARA® (ustekinumab), SIMPONI® (golimumab) and SIMPONI® ARIA™ (golimumab), next generation immunology products with remaining patent lives of 10 years.

The Company’s subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the United States and other countries where such products are marketed. The Company considers these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of its businesses.

2
Seasonality

Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and research and development activity.

Competition

In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with companies both locally and globally, throughout the world. Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products is important to the Company’s success in all areas of its business. This also includes protecting the Company’s portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for the Company’s consumer products involves significant expenditures for advertising and promotion.

Research and Development

Research activities represent a significant part of the Company’s businesses. Research and development expenditures relate to the processes of discovering, testing and developing new products, improving existing products, as well as demonstrating product efficacy and regulatory compliance prior to launch. The Company remains committed to investing in research and development with the aim of delivering high quality and innovative products. Worldwide costs of research and development activities amounted to $8.2 billion, $7.7 billion and $7.5 billion for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Major research facilities are located not only in the United States, but also in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 

Environment

The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international environmental protection measures. The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s compliance with these requirements did not during the past year, and is not expected to, have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.

Regulation

Most of the Company’s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, the drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for FDA clearance of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the United States.

The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the United States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for particular drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the market place and increased attention is being paid to drug and medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization and the quality and costs of health care generally.

Following the U.S. Supreme Court decision in June 2012 upholding the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "ACA"), there has been an increase in the pace of regulatory issuances by those U.S. government agencies designated to carry out the extensive requirements of the ACA. These have both positive and negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of the ACA will ultimately affect the industry.

The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have administrative powers that may subject it to actions such as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, the Company’s subsidiaries may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls.

In addition, business practices in the health care industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.

3
Available Information

The Company’s main corporate website address is www.jnj.com. Copies of the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Report on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), and any amendments to the foregoing, will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company or by calling 1-800-950-5089. All of the Company’s SEC filings are also available on the Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/sec-filings.cfm, as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Benefits Committee, the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, the Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs Committee and the Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company’s Principles of Corporate Governance, Policy on Business Conduct for employees, Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers, and other corporate governance materials, are available at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/materials.cfm on the Company's website and will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request, as provided above. The information on the Company’s website is not, and will not be deemed, a part of this Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings the Company makes with the SEC.

Item 1A.RISK FACTORS