PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

References in this report to “we”, “us” and “our” are to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the “Company”) and one or more of its subsidiaries, as the context requires.

GENERAL

The Company is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world’s leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management and economic consultancy. With over 52,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue exceeding $11.5 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services, and specialized management and economic consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe our current segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

OUR BUSINESSES

RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES

The Risk and Insurance Services segment generated approximately 54% of the Company’s total segment revenue in 2011 and employs approximately 27,600 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

MARSH

Marsh is a world leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions to its clients. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has provided thought leadership and innovation for clients and the insurance industry—introducing and promoting the concept and practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of insurance and risk management services and many other innovative tools and service platforms.

Marsh generated approximately 45% of the Company’s total segment revenue in 2011. Nearly 25,400 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, risk consulting, insurance broking, alternative risk financing, and insurance program management services to a wide range of businesses, government entities, professional service organizations and individuals around the world in more than 100 countries.

Marsh's clients vary by size, industry, geography and risk exposures. Marsh is organized to serve clients efficiently and effectively, delivering tailored solutions based on complexity of risk and geographic footprint, and matched to clients' buying styles.

Insurance Broking and Risk Consulting

In its main insurance broking and risk consulting business, Marsh employs a team approach to address clients' risk management and insurance needs. Each client relationship is coordinated by a client executive or client manager who draws from the many industry and risk specialties within Marsh to assemble the resources needed to analyze, measure and assist a client in managing its various risks. Product and service offerings include program design and placement, post-placement program support and administration, claims support and advocacy, alternative risk strategies, and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. Within Marsh, there are several significant specialties 

 1 

or businesses in addition to our brokerage operations that serve as an important part of the overall capabilities we offer clients. These include Multinational Client Service, Marsh Risk Consulting, Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices, Bowring Marsh, Consumer Operations, Market Consulting, Marsh & McLennan Agency, Captive Solutions, Schinnerer Group and Marsh Client Technologies.

Multinational Client Service

Multinational Client Service (MCS) is solely focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to multinational clients, irrespective of their size. MCS provides risk management programs with a service platform that comprises a combination of proprietary tools and technology and specialized resources. MCS provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory and legal environments and address the worldwide risk issues that confront them.

Marsh Risk Consulting

Marsh Risk Consulting (MRC) is a global organization comprised of consulting specialists dedicated to providing clients with advice and solutions across a comprehensive range of insurable and non-insurable risk issues. MRC helps clients identify exposures, assess critical business functions and evaluate existing risk treatment practices and strategies. MRC provides client services in five main areas of exposure: 

•Marsh Business Analytics: Applies analytics to risk and business management to help foster a better understanding of issues, substantiate decision making, support the implementation of innovative solutions and strategies, and reduce costs.

•Property Risk Consulting: Delivers a range of value-added property risk engineering and loss control identification, assessment, and mitigation consulting solutions spanning the lifecycle of a property and its operation, from planning, design, construction, maintenance, and renovation to disposal.

•Financial Advisory, Claims, Litigation Support: Provides forensic accounting, casualty and liability claim consulting and management, claim accounting preparation, complex claim consulting, mass tort consulting, valuation, investigative services, construction delay and dispute consulting, and capital projects expertise and innovative solutions using proprietary processes and technology.

•Workforce Strategies: Uses a Continuous Risk Improvement (CRI) process to create lasting improvement and support efforts to reduce workers' compensation loss costs; increase the quality, safety, and efficiency of operations; improve productivity and profitability; reinforce behaviors needed to support business objectives; and develop and implement sustainable safety and health management systems.

•Strategic Risk Consulting: Supply and value chain, crisis management, and enterprise risk and resiliency services to help preserve, protect, and defend critical business assets, processes, and reputation; evaluate compliance with regulatory requirements; and meet stakeholder corporate governance expectations.

Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices

In further support of its clients’ strategic, operational and risk management objectives, Marsh provides consultative advice, brokerage and claims advocacy services through dedicated global Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices in the areas listed below. For both large and mid-size organizations, Practice colleagues apply their experience and working knowledge of clients’ industry sectors, and of the unique environments in which they operate, to facilitate the requisite breadth of coverage and to reduce cost of risk.

 2 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Bowring Marsh

Bowring Marsh was established in 2008 to respond to clients’ growing needs and marketplace opportunity, specializing as an international placement broker for property (including terrorism) and casualty risks. Bowring Marsh utilizes placement expertise in major international insurance market hubs (including Bermuda, Brazil, Dublin, London, Miami, Singapore, Tokyo and Zurich) and an integrated global network to secure advantageous terms and conditions for its clients throughout the world.

Consumer Operations—Affinity/Program & Private Client

In addition to its main risk management and broking practices described above, Marsh operates a “Consumer” business in each geographic region that focuses on either or both of affinity/program marketing and administration opportunities and high net worth individual insurance sales. The Affinity/Program businesses sell and administer insurance products and services on a program basis, typically working with a sponsoring organization client to leverage the affinity relationship that client has with its constituencies (e.g., employees, members, franchisees, or customers, as the case may be). These programs include a broad range of group life & health coverages and property & casualty coverages, with a concentration in professional liability insurance. 

Marsh Consumer's sales and servicing activities regarding high net worth individuals are largely U.S.-focused and operate under the names “Private Client Services” (for property & casualty insurance products), and “Private Client Life Insurance Solutions” (for life & health insurance-focused activities). These businesses offer high-net-worth individuals, families and their advisors a single source solution to manage their complete spectrum of risk, uphold their current quality of life and protect and preserve their wealth, current income and legacy. 

 3 

Market Consulting

Marsh provides market consulting and distribution services to insurers. Through Marsh's MarketConnect electronic platform, Marsh provides to insurers individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities and detailed performance data and metrics. Market consulting teams review performance metrics and preferences with insurers and work with them to help improve their performance, enhance their efficiency in the placement process and make their offerings more competitive and appealing to clients and prospects.

Marsh & McLennan Agency

In October 2008, Marsh established the Marsh & McLennan Agency (MMA) to be one of the premier insurance agencies in the United States, meeting the needs of mid-sized businesses across the country. MMA’s services are targeted to customers who seek professional advice on program structure, market knowledge, experience and expertise in their industry, competitive prices, and local resources and service professionals. MMA offers commercial property and casualty, personal lines, employee benefits and life insurance / estate planning to clients through a dedicated sales and service force in retail locations, operating independently from Marsh’s other insurance broking operations.

Captive Solutions

Operating in 29 captive domiciles, along with consulting expertise residing in Marsh brokerage offices worldwide, the Captive Solutions Practice serves approximately 1,263 captive facilities, including single-parent captives, reinsurance pools, risk retention groups and others. The Practice includes the Captive Advisory group—a consulting arm that performs captive feasibility studies and helps to structure and implement captive solutions and Captive Management— an industry leader in managing captive facilities and in providing administrative, consultative and insurance-related services.

Schinnerer Group

As one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability and specialty insurance programs in the United States, Victor O. Schinnerer provides risk management and insurance solutions to clients through licensed brokers.

This group includes ENCON Group Inc., a leading managing general agent in Canada. ENCON offers professional liability and construction insurance, as well as group and retiree benefits programs for individuals, professionals, organizations and businesses, through a national network of licensed insurance brokers and plan advisors.

Marsh Client Technologies

Marsh Client Technologies is comprised of MarshConnect, Marsh's global client technology interface, and CS STARS, a leading provider of risk and claims management systems and related data services.

MarshConnect is a shared platform that delivers two sets of functions: Risk and Insurance Databases and Client Servicing Applications. Proprietary databases provide a broad range of risk and insurance market intelligence, research tools and interactive utilities. Additionally, MarshConnect offers real-time access to critical risk and insurance information relevant to a client's operations and risk profile. The platform enables teams to share information, collaborate and transact business online, increasing operational efficiency for Risk Management departments. 

CS STARS serves the technology needs of risk management professionals, as well as insurance carriers and third-party administrators, through integrated software and services that support risk management, claims administration, compliance management, and data management.

GUY CARPENTER

Guy Carpenter generated approximately 9% of the Company’s total segment revenue in 2011. Approximately 2,200 Guy Carpenter professionals create and execute reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide, by providing risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also 

 4 

include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting.

Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy.

Guy Carpenter also provides reinsurance services in a broad range of specialty practice areas, including: agriculture; alternative risk transfer (such as group-based captives and insurance pools); aviation & aerospace; casualty clash (losses involving multiple policies or insureds); construction and engineering; credit, bond & political risk; excess & umbrella; general casualty; life, accident & health; marine and energy; medical professional liability; professional liability; program manager solutions; property; retrocessional reinsurance (reinsurance between reinsurers); surety (reinsurance of surety bonds and other financial guarantees); terror risk and workers compensation.

Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of risk-linked securities. GC Securities, the Guy Carpenter division of MMC Securities Corp., offers corporate finance solutions, including mergers & acquisitions and private debt and equity capital raising, and capital markets-based risk transfer solutions that complement Guy Carpenter’s strong industry relationships, analytical capabilities and reinsurance expertise.

In addition, Guy Carpenter provides its clients with numerous reinsurance-related services, such as actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter's GC Analytics® unit serves as a local resource that helps clients better understand and quantify the uncertainties inherent in their businesses. Working in close partnership with Guy Carpenter account executives, GC Analytics specialists can help support clients' critical decisions in numerous areas, including reinsurance utilization, catastrophe exposure portfolio management, new product/market development, rating agency, regulatory and account impacts, loss reserve risk, capital adequacy and return on capital.

Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees and commissions. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer selected, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. Marsh is compensated for market consulting services and/or distribution services that it provides to insurers through enhanced commissions (at a fixed percentage of the premium placed with the insurer) and fixed fees. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

CONSULTING

The Company’s consulting segment generated approximately 46% of total segment revenue in 2011 and employs approximately 23,800 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

MERCER

With nearly 20,300 professionals active in 41 countries, Mercer is a leading global provider of human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations. Mercer generated approximately 33% of the Company’s total segment revenue in 2011.

Mercer operates in the following areas:

Retirement, Risk & Finance Consulting. Mercer provides a wide range of strategic and compliance-related retirement services and solutions to corporate, governmental and institutional clients. Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined 

 5 

contribution and hybrid retirement plans. Mercer’s financial approach to retirement services enables clients to consider the benefits, accounting, funding and investment aspects of plan design and management in the context of business objectives and governance requirements.

Health & Benefits. In its health & benefits business, Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design, management and administration of employee health care programs; compliance with local benefits-related regulations; and the establishment of health and welfare benefits coverage for employees. Mercer provides advice and solutions to employers on: total health management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers.

Talent, Rewards & Communications. Mercer’s talent, rewards and communications businesses advise organizations on the engagement, management and rewarding of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; and improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness.

Through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer’s information products solutions business provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making.

Mercer’s communication business helps clients to plan and implement HR programs and other organizational changes in order to maximize employee engagement, drive desired employee behaviors and achieve improvements in business performance.

Outsourcing. Through its outsourcing business, Mercer provides benefits administration services to clients globally. By delivering services across benefit domains and international borders, Mercer helps clients more efficiently manage their employee benefits programs. Mercer’s outsourcing business offers total benefits outsourcing, including administration and delivery for wealth, health and flexible benefits; total retirement outsourcing, including administration and delivery for retirement benefits; and stand-alone services for defined benefit administration, defined contribution administration, health benefits administration and flexible benefits programs.

Investments. Mercer provides investment consulting services to the fiduciaries of pension funds, foundations, endowments and other investors in more than 35 countries. Mercer advises clients and provides outsourced decision-making services covering all stages of the institutional investment process, from strategy, structure and implementation to ongoing portfolio management.

Mercer’s investment management business provides multi-manager investment solutions, primarily for retirement plan assets, to institutional investors (such as retirement plan sponsors and trustees), and to individual investors (primarily through the inclusion of funds managed by Mercer on affiliated and third party defined contribution and financial advice platforms). These solutions include “one-stop” investment advisory and asset management solutions for plan sponsors, bundled services for frozen defined benefit plans utilizing our expertise in liability-driven investment and actuarial techniques, and personal wealth solutions. The investment management business offers a diverse range of investment options to meet a full spectrum of risk/return preferences and manages investment vehicles across a range of investment strategies in four geographic regions (US, Canada, Europe and Australia/New Zealand). As of December 31, 2011, Mercer’s investment management business had assets under management of $53 billion worldwide.

OLIVER WYMAN GROUP

With approximately 3,500 professionals and offices in 25 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman; Lippincott; and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 13% of the Company’s total segment revenue in 2011.

Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting firm. Oliver Wyman’s consultants specialize by industry and functional area, allowing clients to benefit from both deep sector knowledge and specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organizational transformation, and leadership development. Industry groups include:

 6 

•Automotive;

•Aviation, Aerospace and Defense;

•Communications, Media and Technology;

•Energy;

•Financial services, including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, wealth and asset management, public policy, and retail and business banking;

•Industrial products and services;

•Health and life sciences;

•Retail and consumer products; and

•Surface transportation.

Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations:

•Actuarial. Oliver Wyman offers actuarial consulting services to public and private enterprises, self-insured group organizations, insurance companies, government entities, insurance regulatory agencies and other organizations. 

•Business and Organization Transformation. Oliver Wyman advises organizations undergoing or anticipating profound change or facing strategic discontinuities or risks by providing guidance on leading the institution, structuring its operations, improving its performance, and building its organizational capabilities.

•CEO Effectiveness. Oliver Wyman serves as trusted advisors to CEOs around the world - helping them maximize their impact and succeed in their role as the leaders of large, complex enterprises. Oliver Wyman works with CEOs to develop a compelling strategic direction, align the right players on strategy implementation, build strong senior teams, design appropriate governance structures, lead successful transitions at the top, and engage effectively with their boards.

•Corporate Finance & Restructuring. Oliver Wyman provides an array of capabilities to support investment decision making by private equity funds, hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment banks, commercial banks, arrangers, strategic investors, and insurers.

•Risk Management. Oliver Wyman works with CFOs and other senior finance and risk management executives of corporations and financial institutions. Oliver Wyman provides a range of services that provide effective, customized solutions to the challenges presented by the evolving roles, needs and priorities of these individuals and organizations.

•Leadership Development. The Leadership Development business provides customized solutions for clients to develop leadership capability across all levels of their organization in order to accelerate the development of leadership as a source of strategic advantage. These customized solutions blend a range of learning methodologies including leadership and employee engagement programs, action learning, coaching, e-learning, and online applications.

•Marketing and Sales. Oliver Wyman advises leading firms in the areas of offer/pricing optimization; product/service portfolio management; product innovation; marketing spend optimization; value-based customer management; and sales and distribution model transformation.

•Operations and Technology. Oliver Wyman offers market-leading IT organization design, IT economics management, Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies, and sourcing expertise to clients across a broad range of industries.

•Strategy. Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M&A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning.

 7 

Lippincott is a brand strategy and design consulting firm which advises corporations around the world in a variety of industries on corporate branding, identity and image. Lippincott has helped create some of the world’s most recognized brands.

NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA’s specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing.

Compensation for Services in Consulting

Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group businesses are compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer’s health & benefits business is compensated through commissions from insurance companies for the placement of insurance contracts (comprising more than half of the revenue in the health & benefits business) and consulting fees. Mercer’s discretionary investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration and/or management. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

REGULATION

The Company’s activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under United States federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries operate. See Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.

Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in those instances, if the Company has no licensed subsidiary, it may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Such arrangements are subject to an internal review and approval process. Licensing of reinsurance intermediary brokers is generally less rigorous as compared to insurance regulation, and most jurisdictions require only corporate reinsurance intermediary licenses.

Beginning in January 2005, all European Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional standards to insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial capacity and professional indemnity insurance. The adoption by member states of the European Union of regulations to comply with the Directive has led our insurance intermediary operations in the European Union to become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, were expanded to include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.

Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which the Company's subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them, and generally apply to both the insurance and reinsurance business.

 8 

Certain of the Company's Risk and Insurance Services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., a broker-dealer and investment adviser, registered in the U.S. with the SEC, and a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Agency (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), primarily in connection with investment banking-related services relating to insurance-linked and alternative risk financing transactions. Also in the United States, Marsh uses the services of NIA Securities, LLC, a U.S. registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Guy Carpenter provides advice on securities or investments in the European Union through MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FSA. Marsh also receives investment management services in the European Union from Marsh Investment Services Limited, which is also regulated by the FSA. MMC Securities Corp., MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, NIA Securities, LLC, and Marsh Investment Services Limited are indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.

In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.

Consulting. Certain of Mercer’s retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries, including by the SEC in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to persons, institutions and other entities on the investment of pension assets and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. Mercer uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. with the provision of certain retirement and employee benefit services. Oliver Wyman Group uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. (in the United States) and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited (in the European Union), primarily in connection with corporate finance advisory services.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

The Company faces strong competition in all of its businesses from providers of similar products and services, including competition with regard to identifying and pursuing acquisition candidates. The Company also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees. In addition to the discussion below, see “Risks Relating to the Company Generally–Competitive Risks,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Risk and Insurance Services. The Company’s combined insurance and reinsurance services businesses are global in scope. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance 

businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. The Company encounters strong competition from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market, distribute and service their insurance and reinsurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products. 

Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. Certain insureds also obtain coverage directly from insurance providers. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.

Consulting. The Company’s consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well 

 9 

as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms.

Mercer’s investments businesses faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions.

In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group internally, without assistance from outside advisors.

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.

Financial information relating to the types of services provided by the Company and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 52,400 people worldwide, including approximately 27,600 in risk and insurance services, approximately 23,800 in consulting, and approximately 1,000 individuals at the parent-company level.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Company’s Board of Directors. As of February 28, 2012, the following individuals were executive officers of the Company:

Benjamin F. Allen, age 47, is Chief Innovation Officer and Chief Information Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Mr. Allen was previously the President and Chief Executive Officer of Kroll, Inc., which was sold by Marsh & McLennan Companies to Altegrity, Inc. in August 2010. Prior to assuming his role as President and CEO of Kroll, Mr. Allen was Chief Operating Officer of Kroll and also President of Kroll's Technology Services Group, comprised of Kroll Ontrack, Kroll Factual Data and Kroll's background screening and substance abuse testing businesses since 2004. Prior to Kroll's acquisition of Ontrack, Mr. Allen was President and CEO of ONTRACK Data International, Inc., and served in several roles for that firm including as Chief Operating Officer and general manager of the U.K. and France. 

Orlando D. Ashford, age 43, is Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Communications Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Mr. Ashford joined the Company in September 2008. Prior to Marsh & McLennan Companies, he was with the Coca-Cola Company since 2005 in human resource management, most recently as Group Director of Human Resources for Eurasia and Africa. While at Coca-Cola, Mr. Ashford reorganized and rebuilt the company's corporate center HR team and headed a company-wide cultural change initiative. Prior to Coca-Cola, Mr. Ashford held positions with Motorola, the Delta Consulting Group (subsequently Mercer Delta Consulting), Ameritech and Andersen Consulting.

Peter J. Beshar, age 50, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Before joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a Litigation Partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General's office and as the Special Assistant to Cyrus Vance in connection with the peace negotiations in the former Yugoslavia.

John P. Drzik, age 49, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Oliver Wyman Group, a position he assumed in June 2006. From 2003 to 2006, Mr. Drzik was President of Mercer Oliver Wyman, which was formed following Marsh & McLennan Companies' acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company in 2003. He joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1984, became President in 1995, and was appointed Chairman in 2000.

Brian Duperreault, age 64, has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Duperreault served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited from 1994 to May 2004 and continued as Chairman through the end of 2007. Prior to ACE, Mr. Duperreault was with American International Group (AIG) for more than 20 years, holding numerous positions and eventually becoming Executive Vice President of AIG Foreign General Insurance 

 10 

and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AIG's American International Underwriters (AIU). Mr. Duperreault is also a Director of Tyco International Ltd.

E. Scott Gilbert, age 56, is Senior Vice President and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Prior to joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in January 2005, he had been the Chief Compliance Counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was Counsel, Litigation and Legal Policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York.

Daniel S. Glaser, age 51, is Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. In this role, Mr. Glaser has operational and strategic oversight of the Company's Risk & Insurance and Consulting segments. Prior to assuming his current role in April 2011, Mr. Glaser was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh. Mr. Glaser re-joined Marsh as the firm's leader in December 2007, after serving in senior positions in commercial insurance and insurance brokerage in the U.S., Europe, and the Middle East. Prior to Marsh, he was managing director of AIG Europe (UK) Limited, a Senior Vice President of AIG, Inc., and the Chairman of AIU's strategic advisory group. Mr. Glaser joined AIG in 2000 as President of AIG Global Energy based in New York. He became an Executive Vice President of AIG's general insurance operations in North America in 2002. Later that year, he relocated to London upon his appointment as managing director. Mr. Glaser began his career at Marsh almost 30 years ago and has extensive leadership experience in the insurance sector.

Alexander S. Moczarski, age 56, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter. Prior to assuming this role in April 2011, Mr. Moczarski had been President and CEO of the International Division of Marsh since 2008. Mr. Moczarski, who has more than 30 years of experience in the insurance industry, joined Marsh in 1993 as director of planning and development for Argentina and Chile. In 2001, he became region head for Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2004, he became head of the firm's International Specialty Operations, a region that encompassed Africa, Asia, Pacific, Latin America, and the Caribbean. In 2006, Mr. Moczarski became CEO of Marsh's Europe, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA). 

David A. Nadler, age 63, is Vice Chairman, Office of the CEO, of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Dr. Nadler founded the Delta Consulting Group, Inc., a consulting firm specializing in executive leadership and organizational change, in 1980. He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that firm until its acquisition by Mercer in 2000, when it became Mercer Delta Consulting. 

Julio A. Portalatin, age 53, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer. Prior to joining Mercer in February 2012, Mr. Portalatin was the President and CEO of Chartis Growth Economies, and Senior Vice President, American International Group (AIG). In that role, he had responsibility for operations in Asia Pacific, South Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central Europe - the largest growth economies footprint in the insurance industry. Mr. Portalatin began his career with AIG in 1993 and thereafter held a number of key leadership roles, including President of the Worldwide Accident & Health Division at American International Underwriters (AIU) from 2002-2007. From 2007-2010, he served as President and CEO of Chartis Europe S.A. and Continental European Region, based in Paris, before becoming President and CEO of Chartis Emerging Markets. Prior to joining AIG / Chartis, Mr. Portalatin spent 12 years with Allstate Insurance Company in various executive product underwriting, distribution and marketing positions.

Vanessa A. Wittman, age 44, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Prior to joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in September 2008, Ms. Wittman was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Adelphia Communications Corp. from 2003 to 2007. She joined Adelphia as part of a new executive team that oversaw one of the most complex bankruptcy cases in U.S. history. While there, Ms. Wittman was responsible for accounting, tax and internal audit functions; operational and field finance; corporate development; and the bankruptcy and investor relations teams. Prior to Adelphia, Ms. Wittman served as Chief Financial Officer of 360networks, based in Seattle, where she led the Company's restructuring efforts and successful emergence from bankruptcy protection in November 2002. She also has held positions with Microsoft, Metricom Inc. and Morgan Stanley.

Peter Zaffino, age 45, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh. Prior to assuming this role in April 2011, Mr. Zaffino was President and Chief Executive officer of Guy Carpenter, a position he 

 11 

assumed in early 2008. Previously, he was an Executive Vice President of Guy Carpenter and had held a number of senior positions, including Head of Guy Carpenter's U.S. Treaty Operations and Head of the firm's Global Specialty Practices business. Mr. Zaffino has over 20 years of experience in the Insurance and Reinsurance industry. Prior to joining Guy Carpenter in 2001, he held several senior positions, most recently serving in an executive role with a GE Capital portfolio company that specialized in reinsurance.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, the Company files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The Company makes these reports and any amendments to these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, like the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.

The Company also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:

•Guidelines for Corporate Governance;

•Code of Conduct, The Greater Good;

•Procedures for Reporting Complaints and Concerns Regarding Accounting Matters; and

•the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance and Risk Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.

All of the above documents are available in printed form to any Company stockholder upon request.

Item 1A. Risk Factors