Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

General

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world’s leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management and economic consultancy. With over 52,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue exceeding $11.5 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services, and specialized management and economic consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

The Company completed the sale of Kroll in August 2010, and along with other dispositions between 2008 and 2010, has divested its entire Risk Consulting and Technology Segment. Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements describes the Company's “continuing involvement” in certain Corporate Advisory and Restructuring businesses (“CARG”) that were disposed of in 2008. The runoff of the CARG businesses is being managed by the Company's corporate departments and financial results of these entities are included in “Corporate” for segment reporting purposes.

We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II Item 8 in this report. The accounting policies used for each segment are the same as those used for the consolidated financial statements.

This MD&A contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the outset of this report.

 26 

Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated operating income was $1.6 billion in 2011 compared with $939 million in 2010. The 2010 results include a $400 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the resolution of the litigation brought by the Alaska Retirement Management Board ("ARMB") and restructuring and other noteworthy items of $139 million. Excluding these charges, consolidated operating income was $1.5 billion in 2010.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $257 million or 26% to $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with 2010, resulting from revenue growth at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter, continued expense discipline and a decrease of $132 million in restructuring and other noteworthy items.

Consulting operating income increased $459 million to $588 million in 2011 primarily due to the $400 million net charge related to the ARMB litigation settlement in 2010. Excluding these items, Consulting operating income increased $59 million, or 11%.

Discontinued operations in 2011 includes a net credit resulting from the resolution of certain legal matters and related insurance recoveries as well as the settlement of certain tax audits and the expiration of the statute of limitations related to certain indemnified matters in connection with the disposal of Putnam and Kroll. These credits are partly offset by the write-off, net of tax, of capitalized software related to Marsh's plan to sell the Marsh Business Processing Outsourcing ("BPO") business. Discontinued operations includes the operating results of Kroll in 2010 and 2009, including a goodwill impairment charge of $315 million in 2009, gains on the sales of Kroll and KLS in 2010 totaling $282 million, insurance recoveries of $16 million related to Putnam market-timing related matters in 2010 and the loss on the sale of KGS in 2009. 

Discontinued operations also includes the accretion of interest related to an indemnity for uncertain tax positions provided as part of the purchase by Great-West Life Co. Inc., of Putnam Investments Trust from the Company in August 2007.

 27 

 28 

Consolidated net income attributable to the Company was $993 million in 2011, compared with $855 million in 2010 and $227 million in 2009.

Consolidated Revenues and Expenses

The Company conducts business in many countries, as a result of which the impact of foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions including transfers among businesses, on the Company’s operating revenues is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

 29 

Revenue Details

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

 30 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

Revenue Details

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

 31 

Revenue

Consolidated revenue for 2011 increased 9% to $11.5 billion compared with $10.6 billion in 2010, reflecting a 5% increase in underlying revenue, a 2% increase due to acquisitions and a 2% positive impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 9% in 2011 compared with 2010 or 5% on an underlying basis, reflecting increases of 4% in Marsh and 5% in Guy Carpenter. Consulting segment revenue increased 9%, resulting from 9% increases in both Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group. On an underlying basis, revenue increased 5%, reflecting a 4% increase in Mercer and a 7% increase in the Oliver Wyman Group.

Consolidated revenue for 2010 increased 7% to $10.6 billion compared with $9.8 billion in 2009, reflecting a 3% increase in underlying revenue, a 3% increase due to acquisitions and a 1% positive impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 9% in 2010 compared with 2009. Underlying revenue increased 2% for the total Risk and Insurance Services segment, reflecting 2% increases in both Marsh and Guy Carpenter, partly offset by a 21% decrease in fiduciary interest income. Consulting segment revenue increased 5%, resulting from a 5% increase in Mercer and a 6% increase in the Oliver Wyman Group. On an underlying basis, revenue increased 3% reflecting a 2% increase in Mercer and a 7% increase in the Oliver Wyman Group.

Expenses

Consolidated operating expenses increased 3% in 2011 compared with the same period in 2010. Expenses in 2010 include the $400 million ARMB settlement at Mercer. Restructuring and other noteworthy charges, which include legal fees, net of insurance recoveries arising from regulatory actions and credits related to the CARG business divested in 2008, decreased $116 million to $23 million in 2011 as compared to $139 million in 2010. Excluding these charges, expenses were $9.9 billion in 2011 compared with $9.1 billion in 2010, an increase of 9%. The increase reflects a 3% increase due to the impact of foreign currency exchange, a 2% increase due to the impact of acquisitions and a 4% increase in underlying expenses. The increase in underlying expenses primarily reflects higher compensation and benefits costs, including increased pension costs, higher consulting costs, asset-based fees and expenses reimbursable from clients.

Consolidated operating expenses increased 6% in 2010 compared with the same period in 2009. Expenses in 2010 include the $400 million ARMB settlement at Mercer. In 2009, the Company recorded a $230 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits filed in 2004. Restructuring and other noteworthy charges in 2010 of $139 million decreased $155 million from charges of $294 million in 2009. Excluding these charges, expenses were $9.1 billion in 2010 compared with $8.5 billion in 2009, an increase of 6%. The increase reflects a 1% increase due to the impact of foreign currency exchange, a 3% increase due to the impact of acquisitions and a 2% increase in underlying expenses. The increase in underlying expenses is due to higher pension, travel and entertainment, outsourcing and other outside services costs.

Restructuring

In 2011, the Company implemented restructuring actions which resulted in costs totaling $51 million, primarily related to severance and benefits, and costs for future rent and other real estate costs. Approximately $5 million of these costs related to cost reduction activities for acquisitions made in 2011 and 2010. These costs were incurred as follows: Risk and Insurance Services—$1 million; Consulting—$31 million (acquisition related—$8 million); and Corporate—$19 million. These activities resulted in the elimination of approximately 400 positions at Mercer and 40 positions at Corporate. The annualized cost savings from these actions are expected to be approximately $45 million.

Businesses Exited

Marsh's BPO business, one of seven units within the Marsh Consumer business, provides policy, claims, call center and accounting operations on an outsourced basis to life insurance carriers. Marsh invested in a technology platform that was designed to make the BPO business scalable and more efficient. During 2011, Marsh decided that it would cease investing in the technology platform and instead exit the business via a sale. In the fourth quarter of 2011, management initiated a plan to sell the Marsh BPO business. The company wrote off capitalized software of the BPO business of $17 million, net of tax, which is included in discontinued operations. 

 32 

In February 2010, Kroll sold KLS, its substance abuse testing business for $110 million. On August 3, 2010, the Company completed the sale of Kroll to Altegrity for $1.13 billion. The account balances and activities of Kroll and KLS have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements for 2010 and 2009. The gain on the sale of Kroll and related tax benefits and the after- tax loss on the disposal of KLS, along with Kroll’s and KLS’s 2010 and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations.

During the second quarter of 2009, Kroll sold Kroll Government Services ("KGS"). The results of operations and the loss on sale of KGS are included in discontinued operations for that year.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company sold its U.S. and U.K. restructuring businesses to their respective management teams in separate leveraged buyouts. Based on the terms and conditions of the disposals, the Company determined it has “continuing involvement” in these businesses, as that term is used in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5e. Therefore, classification of CARG as discontinued operations is not appropriate, and their financial results in the current and prior periods are included in continuing operations. The Company will earn royalties on future revenue of these businesses through 2012. The royalties will be recognized when earned under the terms of the contract and when collectibility is reasonably assured. Through December 31, 2011, the Company has recognized $20 million of royalty payments related to the U.K. businesses ($9 million in 2011, $10 million in 2010 and $1 million in 2009). The transfer of the U.S. restructuring business was financed with a seller note. If the Company receives interest and principal payments as scheduled for the U.S. business, it will recover the value of the net assets transferred to the new owners and recognize a gain on the disposal of $18 million.

In March 2010, the Company agreed to suspend collections of interest and principal payments on the seller financed note related to the U.S. restructuring business. The payments received prior to March 2010 were sufficient to allow the Company to recover the value of net assets transferred and recognize $1 million of gain. Although it is uncertain whether future payments will be received under the revised terms of the note, the Company has no remaining net investment in the U.S. restructuring business. Any future collections will be recognized as income, if and when received.

Risk and Insurance Services

In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter.

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients and/or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Revenues are affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds/reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the types and amounts of risks to be analyzed by the Company and ultimately placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next will therefore be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk retention, and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients.

In March 2010, Marsh announced its approach to market remuneration and contingent commissions in the U.S. As previously announced, Marsh and McLennan Agency and Marsh’s affinity, sponsored program and personal lines businesses accept contingent commissions. Marsh does not accept contingent commissions on any placement for any U.S. clients served by the firm’s core brokerage operation. Marsh will continue to collect enhanced commissions with respect to its core brokerage operations, which are fixed in advance of insurance transactions and are not related to volume, retention, growth or profitability.

 33 

Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically provide for segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts earlier in this MD&A.

The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Revenue in Risk and Insurance Services increased 9% in 2011 compared with 2010 reflecting a 5% increase on an underlying basis, a 3% increase from acquisitions, and a 2% increase from the impact of foreign currency exchange translation.

In Marsh, revenue in 2011 was $5.2 billion, an increase of 10% from the prior year, reflecting 4% growth in underlying revenue, a 4% increase from acquisitions and a 2% increase resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase of 4% reflects growth in all major geographies, driven by higher retention rates and new business development. Underlying revenue increased 14% in Latin America, 9% in Asia Pacific, 3% in U.S. / Canada and 4% in EMEA.

In January 2011, Marsh acquired RJF Agencies, an independent insurance agency in the upper Midwest. In February 2011, Marsh acquired Hampton Roads Bonding, a surety bonding agency for commercial, road, utility, maritime and government contractors in the state of Virginia, and the Boston office of Kinloch Consulting Group, Inc. In July 2011, Marsh acquired Prescott Pailet Benefits, an employee benefits broker based in Texas. In October 2011, Marsh acquired the employee benefits division of Kaeding, Ernst & Co, a Massachusetts based employee benefits, life insurance and financial planning consulting firm. In November 2011, Marsh acquired Seitlin Insurance, a property and casualty insurance and employee benefits firm located in South Florida.

In the first quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired Haake Companies, Inc., an insurance broking firm in the Midwest region and Thomas Rutherfoord, Inc., an insurance broking firm in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S. In the second quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired HSBC Insurance Brokers Ltd. ("HIBL"), an international provider of risk intermediary and risk advisory services and the Bostonian Group Insurance Agency, Inc. and Bostonian Solutions, Inc. (collectively the “Bostonian Group”), a regional insurance brokerage in New England. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired Trion, a U.S. private benefits specialist and SBS, a Georgia-based benefits brokerage and consulting firm.

All of the acquisitions noted above, except HIBL, relate to the Marsh & McLennan Agency. 

In January 2012, Marsh announced it had completed its acquisition of the brokerage operations of Alexander Forbes in South Africa, Botswana and Namibia.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 7% to $1.0 billion in 2011 compared with 2010, or 5% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying revenue was driven by strong new business development and high retention rates. 

Fiduciary interest income was $47 million in 2011 compared to $45 million in 2010 due to higher average invested funds partly offset by lower interest rates.

 34 

Revenue in Risk and Insurance Services increased 9% in 2010 compared with 2009 reflecting a 2% increase on an underlying basis, a 6% increase from acquisitions, and a 1% increase from the impact of foreign currency exchange translation.

In Marsh, revenue in 2010 was $4.7 billion, an increase of 10% from the same quarter of the prior year, reflecting 2% growth in underlying revenue, a 6% increase from acquisitions and a 1% increase resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. Marsh increased revenues in all its geographies, reflecting new business growth of 8%. Underlying revenue increased 8% in Latin America, 7% in Asia Pacific, 1% in U.S. / Canada and 3% in EMEA.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 7% to $975 million in 2010 compared with 2009, or 2% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying revenue was due to continued strong new business and high client retention.

Fiduciary interest income for the Risk and Insurance Services segment was $45 million in 2010, a decrease of 16% compared with the same period of 2009, driven by lower interest rates.

Expense

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 6% in 2011 compared with 2010, reflecting a 3% increase from acquisitions and a 2% increase due to the impact of foreign currency translation. Expenses on an underlying basis increased 1% as the segment continued to effectively monitor and control its expenses. The increase in underlying expenses is primarily due to higher base salaries and incentive compensation costs, non-restructuring related severance costs and facilities and equipment costs, partly offset by lower restructuring expenses and a credit of $31 million for insurance recoveries on previously expensed legal fees.

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 7% in 2010 compared with 2009, reflecting a 6% increase from acquisitions and a 1% increase due to the impact of foreign currency translation. Expenses on an underlying basis were flat, as higher pension related expenses, travel and entertainment, and outsourcing costs were offset by a $77 million decrease in restructuring and related charges.

Consulting

The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of retirement, health & benefits, talent, rewards & communications, outsourcing, and investments. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management and economic and brand consulting services.

The major component of revenue in the Consulting segment business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health & benefits line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s investment management business and certain of Mercer’s outsourcing businesses consists principally of fees based on assets under management or administration.

Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services are significantly affected by securities market performance.

 35 

The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Consulting revenue in 2011 increased 9% compared with 2010, or 5% on an underlying basis. Mercer’s revenue was $3.8 billion in 2011, an increase of 9% or 4% on an underlying basis. Within Mercer’s consulting lines, revenue on an underlying basis increased 4% in 2011 compared with 2010, reflecting increases of 6% in health and benefits and 11% in talent, rewards & communications, offset by a 1% decline in retirement. Outsourcing revenue grew 9% and was flat on an underlying basis. Investments revenue increased 26% or 11% on an underlying basis. Oliver Wyman’s revenue increased 9% to $1.5 billion in 2011, or 7% on an underlying basis. 

Consulting revenue in 2010 increased 5% compared with 2009, or 3% on an underlying basis. Mercer’s revenue was $3.5 billion in 2010, an increase of 5%. On an underlying basis, Mercer’s revenue increased 2%. Within Mercer’s consulting lines, revenue on an underlying basis in 2010 was flat compared with 2009, reflecting increases of 5% in health and benefits and 2% in talent, rewards & communications, offset by a 4% decline in retirement. The growth in health and benefits was driven by increases in all geographies. The increase in talent, rewards & communications was driven by a resurgence of demand for compensation surveys partially offset by lower talent, rewards & communications consulting assignments concentrated in the first half of the year. Outsourcing revenue increased 3% on an underlying basis, driven by new client wins primarily in Australia. Investment consulting & management revenue increased 16% on an underlying basis, due to strong growth in all geographies. Oliver Wyman’s revenue increased 6% to $1.4 billion in 2010, or 7% on an underlying basis, driven by double-digit revenue growth within its financial services practice. Other areas, including the healthcare, transportation and consumer sectors also generated double-digit revenue growth.

Expense

Consulting segment expenses in 2011 decreased 1% to $4.7 billion, or 4% on an underlying basis. Mercer recorded a $400 million net charge related to the ARMB settlement in 2010. Excluding this charge, expenses increased 4% on an underlying basis. This increase reflects the impact of higher base-salaries and incentive compensation and benefits costs, including higher pension costs, and higher asset-based fees and recoverable expenses from clients. 

Consulting expenses in 2010 increased 12% to $4.7 billion, or 10% on an underlying basis. Mercer recorded a $400 million net charge related to the ARMB settlement in 2010 and in 2009 recorded incremental costs of $30 million related to a professional liability settlement. Excluding these charges, expenses increased 3% on an underlying basis. This increase reflects the impact of higher pension related costs, meeting and training costs, recruitment and asset based fees partly offset by lower severance, restructuring and recoverable expenses from clients.

Corporate and Other

As discussed earlier in this document, the run-off of the Company’s involvement in the CARG businesses is now managed by the Company’s corporate departments, and consequently, the financial results of these businesses are included in “Corporate” for segment reporting purposes.

 36 

 37 

The following results of Corporate and Other includes the Corporate Advisory and Restructuring operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate expenses in 2011 were $188 million compared to $172 million in 2010. The increase in Corporate expense reflects higher compensation and pension costs primarily due to executive positions added in corporate and higher outside services costs related to corporate initiatives, such as branding. The CARG amounts reflect payments received related to the CARG businesses divested in 2008.

Corporate expenses in 2010 were $172 million compared to $420 million in 2009. The decrease is due, largely to the impact of a $230 million net charge incurred in 2009 related to the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits. The decrease in Corporate expense in 2010 compared to 2009 also reflects the impact of lower restructuring charges partly offset by higher consulting fees. The increase in Corporate Advisory and Restructuring in 2010 is due to the impact of $10 million of payments received in 2010 related to the disposal of this unit in 2008 compared with $1 million in 2009. These payments are classified as a recovery of expenses previously incurred as a result of the disposal transaction.

Discontinued Operations

As part of the disposal transactions for Putnam and Kroll, the Company provided certain indemnities, primarily related to pre-transaction tax uncertainties and legal contingencies. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, liabilities were established related to these indemnities at the time of the sales and reflected as a reduction of the gain on disposal. Discontinued operations includes charges or credits resulting from the settlement or resolution of the indemnified matters, as well as adjustments to the liabilities related to such matters. Discontinued operations in 2011 includes credits of $50 million from the resolution of certain legal matters and insurance recoveries, as well as the settlement of tax audits and the expiration of the statutes of limitations related to certain of the indemnified matters, primarily with respect to Putnam.

Marsh's Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO") business, one of seven units within the Marsh Consumer business, provides policy, claims, call center and accounting operations on an outsourced basis to life insurance carriers. Marsh invested in a technology platform that was designed to make the BPO business scalable and more efficient. During 2011, Marsh decided that it would cease investing in the technology platform and instead exit the business via a sale. In the fourth quarter of 2011, management initiated a plan to sell the Marsh BPO business. The company wrote off capitalized software of the BPO business of $17 million, net of tax, which is included in discontinued operations. 

On August 3, 2010, the Company completed its sale of Kroll to Altegrity for cash proceeds of $1.13 billion. In the first quarter of 2010, Kroll completed the sale of KLS. The gain on the sale of Kroll and related tax benefits and the after-tax loss on the sale of KLS, along with Kroll’s and KLS’s 2010 and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations in 2010 and 2009.

Discontinued operations in 2011, 2010 and 2009 includes the accretion of interest related to an indemnity for uncertain tax positions provided as part of the purchase by Great-West Lifeco, Inc. of Putnam Investments Trust from the Company in August 2007. Discontinued operations in 2010 includes $16 million for insurance recoveries for costs incurred in prior years related to Putnam.

 38 

In the second quarter of 2009 Kroll completed the sale of KGS. The loss on the sale of KGS and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations in 2009.

Summarized Statements of Income data for discontinued operations is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes goodwill impairment charges of $315 million for 2009.

(b)Includes gain on sale of Kroll and the gain on the sale of KLS in 2010 and a loss on the sale of KGS in 2009.

(c)The income tax credit related to the disposal of discontinued operations for 2010 primarily represents the recognition of tax benefits related to the sale of Kroll, partly offset by a tax provision of $36 million related to the sale of KGS.

Other Corporate Items

Interest

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $28 million in 2011 compared with $20 million in 2010. The increase in interest income is due to the combined effect of higher average invested funds in 2011 and slightly higher average interest rates compared with the prior year. Interest expense was $199 million in 2011 compared with $233 million in 2010. The decrease is primarily due to the maturity of $550 million of senior notes in the third quarter of 2010, the early extinguishment of a portion of the Company's outstanding notes during the third quarter of 2011 and a lower net interest rate on the Company's debt subject to interest rate swaps. These decreases are partly offset by interest on new senior notes issued during the third quarter of 2011.

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $20 million in 2010 compared with $17 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher non-U.S. interest rate yields in 2010 compared to 2009. Interest expense was $233 million in 2010 compared with $241 million in 2009. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to the maturity of $550 million of senior notes in the third quarter of 2010.

Early Extinguishment of Debt

On July 15, 2011 the Company purchased $600 million of outstanding notes, comprised of $330 million of its 2014 Notes and $270 million of its 2015 Notes (collectively, the "Notes"). The Company acquired the Notes at market value plus a tender premium, which exceeded its carrying value and resulted in a charge of approximately $72 million in the third quarter of 2011.

Investment Income (Loss)

 39 

In 2011, investment income was $9 million compared with $43 million in 2010. This decrease primarily 

 40 

reflects the impact of lower private equity gains recorded in 2011 as compared to 2010, the effects of recording an impairment loss in 2011 and a gain on the sale of equity securities in 2010. 

In 2010, investment income was $43 million compared with a loss of $2 million in 2009. The increase reflects the impact of mark-to-market gains in 2010 on Risk Capital Holdings’ private equity investments compared to losses in 2009, and gains realized from the sale of equity securities in 2010.

Income Taxes

The Company's consolidated effective tax rate in 2011 was 30.1% and in 2010 was 26.5%. The tax rate in each year reflects foreign operations, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. 

The Company's consolidated effective tax rate in 2009 was 3.8%. The tax rate reflects reductions relating to a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and the impact of foreign operations, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from expiring statutes of limitations, audit settlements and changes in estimates.

The lower effective tax rate attributed to the Company's foreign operations primarily reflects lower corporate tax rates that prevail outside of the U.S., net of the U.S. tax impact from repatriating foreign earnings. In 2011 pre-tax income in the U.K., Canada, Australia and Bermuda accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total non-U.S. pre-tax income, with effective rates in those countries of 25%, 29%, 31% and 0%, respectively. Under current U.S. tax law, the Company anticipates its non-U.S. operations will continue to incur taxes at rates under the U.S. federal tax rate of 35%. 

The Company's non-U.S. revenue over the past three years has been approximately 55% of total revenue, while the pre-tax income from non-U.S. locations varied from 91% to 179% of total pre-tax income. Although revenue in the United States has been approximately 45% of total revenue, while the Company had gains in its U.S. operations in 2011, the Company incurred pre-tax losses in the United States during 2010 and 2009 because significant charges from restructuring activities and certain litigation matters were disproportionately incurred there. Litigation related charges, including legal fees, resulted from the settlement of shareholder and ERISA class actions in 2009, and the resolution of the Alaska matter in 2010, all of which are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company incurred gains in its U.S. operations in 2011.

In addition, as a U.S. domiciled parent holding company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., is the issuer for essentially all of the Company's external indebtedness, and incurs the related interest expense in the U.S. Finally, most senior executive and oversight functions are conducted in the U.S. Therefore, the associated costs are incurred primarily in the United States.

The effective tax rate is expected to remain significantly variable for the foreseeable future. It is sensitive to the geographic mix and repatriation of the Company's earnings, which may result in higher or lower tax rates. A proportional increase in U.S. pre-tax income will tend to increase the effective tax rate because U.S. federal and state corporate tax rates substantially exceed tax rates applicable outside the U.S. Losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances that affect the rate, depending on estimates of the realizability of associated deferred tax assets. The tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends on generating future taxable income during the periods in which the tax benefits are deductible or creditable. The Company and Marsh have been profitable globally. However, tax liabilities are determined and assessed on a legal entity and jurisdictional basis. Certain taxing jurisdictions allow or require combined or consolidated tax filings. In the United States, certain groups within the Company, which file on a combined basis, were profitable in 2011, but incurred losses in 2009 and 2010, and an entity within Marsh's operations, which files on a separate entity basis, incurred a loss in 2009. The Company assessed the realizability of its domestic deferred tax assets, particularly state deferred tax assets of Marsh relating to jurisdictions in which it files separate tax returns, state deferred tax assets of all of the Company domestic operations related to jurisdictions in which the Company files a unitary or combined state tax return, and foreign tax credit carryforwards in the Company's consolidated U.S. federal tax return. When making its assessment about the realization of its domestic deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011, the Company considered all available evidence, placing particular weight on evidence that could be objectively verified. The evidence considered included 

 41 

(i) the profitability of the Company's U.S. operations in 2011 (ii) the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses, (iii) actions completed that are designed to reduce capacity and adjust to lower demand in the current economic environment, (iv) profit trends evidenced by continued improvements in the Company's and Marsh's operating performance, (v) the non-recurring nature of some of the items that contributed to the losses, (vi) the carryforward periods for the net operating losses ("NOLs") and foreign tax credit carryforwards, (vii) the sources and timing of future taxable income, giving weight to sources according to the extent to which they can be objectively verified, and (viii) tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to accelerate utilization of NOLs. Based on its assessment, the Company concluded that it is more likely than not that a substantial portion of these deferred tax assets are realizable and a valuation allowance was recorded to reduce the domestic tax assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized. In the event sufficient taxable income is not generated in future periods, additional valuation allowances of up to approximately $240 million could be required relating to these domestic deferred tax assets. The realization of the remaining U.S. federal deferred tax assets is not as sensitive to U.S. profits because it is supported by anticipated repatriation of future annual earnings from the Company's profitable global operations, consistent with the Company's historical practice. In addition, when making its assessment about the realization of its domestic deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011, the Company continued to assess the realizability of deferred tax assets of certain other entities with a history of recent losses, including other U.S. entities that file separate state tax returns and foreign subsidiaries, and recorded valuation allowances as appropriate.

Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on the effective tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from its operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, the Company is dependent upon dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries to meet its obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities discussed below in financing cash flows.

The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States. Funds from the Company’s operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States are regularly repatriated to the United States out of annual earnings. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents in its foreign operations of which all but approximately $82 million is considered to be permanently invested in those operations to fund foreign investments and working capital needs. The Company expects to continue its practice of repatriating foreign funds out of annual earnings. While management does not foresee a need to repatriate the funds which are currently deemed permanently invested, if facts or circumstances change management could elect to repatriate them, if necessary, which could result in higher effective tax rates in the future.

Cash on our consolidated balance sheets includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated balance sheets as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company.

Operating Cash Flows

The Company generated $1.7 billion of cash from operations in 2011 compared with $722 million in 2010. These amounts reflect the net income reported by the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments and the disposition of businesses, adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in working capital which relate, primarily, to the timing of payments for accrued liabilities or receipts of assets. Cash generated from the disposition of businesses is included in investing cash flows. 

The Company received $322 million in cash refunds of U.S. federal income taxes during the second quarter of 2011, comprising $212 million from carrying back the net capital loss incurred in 2010 from the 

 42 

sale of Kroll and various other assets, and $110 million from the cash settlement of the IRS audit for the periods 2006 through 2008. The audit settlement primarily reflected the allowance of carry back claims for net operating losses and excess foreign tax credits arising in 2008. The impact on the tax provision of these events was reflected in prior periods and did not impact income tax expense reported in 2011.

On June 11, 2010, the Company resolved the litigation brought by the ARMB on behalf of two Alaska benefit plans against Mercer, relating to work in the period 1992 to 2004. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Mercer paid $500 million, of which $100 million was covered by insurance. 

Pension Related Items

During 2011, the Company contributed $24 million to its U.S. pension plans and $320 million to non-U.S. pension plans, compared with $221 million for U.S. plans and $237 million for non-U.S. plans in 2010.

On January 3, 2012, the Company contributed $100 million to its U.S. qualified plan. The Company’s expected funding for its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans for the remainder of 2012 is approximately $24 million and $395 million, respectively. The Company’s policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable laws of other jurisdictions. There currently is no ERISA funding requirement for the U.S. qualified plan for 2011 or 2012. Funding requirements for non-U.S. plans vary by country. 

Contribution rates are determined by the local actuaries based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under U.S. GAAP. Funding amounts may be influenced by future asset performance, the level of discount rates and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan. In addition, amounts funded in the future, to the extent not due under regulatory requirements, may be affected by alternative uses of the Company’s cash flows, including dividends, investments and share repurchases.

Pension liabilities are impacted by, among other things, the discount rate set as of year-end. In addition, the year-over-year change in the funded status of the plans is impacted by the variance between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses were approximately $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011 for the U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, compared with $1.3 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2010. The increase is primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rates as well as actual returns in 2011 that were lower than the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets. In the past several years, the amount of actuarial losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates. The discount rate used to measure plan liabilities declined in both the U.S. and the U.K. (our two largest plans) in each of the three years for 2009 to 2011. At the end of 2009, the weighted average discount rate for all plans was 6.0%, declining to 5.6% and 4.9% at the end of 2010 and 2011, respectively. A decline in the discount rate increases the measured plan liability, resulting in actuarial losses. During 2011, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 5.8%, and 4.8% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively. During 2010, the actual returns were 14.4% in the U.S. and 13.5% in the U.K., and in 2009 were 12.6% and 14.8% in the U.S and U.K., respectively. In 2011, both the decline in the discount rate and actual asset returns that were lower than the assumed rates of return contributed to the actuarial losses. In 2010 and 2009, actuarial losses resulting from declines in the discount rate were partly offset by actual asset returns which exceeded the assumed rates of return in each year. 

Overall, the Company’s pension expense is expected to increase in 2012 by approximately $30 million before the partly-offsetting impacts on bonuses and other incentive compensation and possible movements in foreign exchange rates. The increase in the expected pension expense in 2012 results primarily from a decline in the discount rates used to measure plan liabilities, which has the effect of increasing pension expense, and the impact of a lower assumed rate of return on assets in the U.K., partly offset by lower amortization of actuarial losses, reflecting the fact that substantially all the participants in a U.K. plan which has been closed to new entrants for more than ten years are now inactive.

 43 

The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financing Cash Flows

Net cash used for financing activities was $1.0 billion in 2011 compared with $1.1 billion of net cash used for financing activities in 2010. The Company reduced outstanding debt by approximately $100 million, $550 million and $10 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Debt

On July 15, 2011, the Company purchased $600 million of outstanding notes comprised of $330 million of its 2014 Notes and $270 million of its 2015 Notes (collectively, the "Notes"). The Company acquired the Notes at fair value plus a tender premium, which exceeded its carrying value. A charge of approximately $72 million was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the third quarter of 2011 related to the extinguishment of this debt.

The Company used proceeds from the issuance of 4.80% ten-year $500 million senior notes in the third quarter of 2011 and cash on hand to purchase the Notes.

During 2010, the Company’s 5.15% ten-year fixed rate $550 million senior notes matured. The Company used a portion of the cash received from the Kroll disposition to fund the maturity of those notes.

Acquisitions

In the second quarter of 2011, the Company acquired the remaining minority interest of a previously majority-owned entity for total cash consideration of $8 million.

In the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, the Company paid deferred purchase consideration of $13 million and $15 million, respectively, related to the purchase in 2009 of the minority interest of a previously controlled entity.

Credit Facilities

On October 13, 2011, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a new $1.0 billion multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the $1.0 billion facility discussed below. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus a fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. This facility requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. There were no borrowings under this facility at December 31, 2011.

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries previously maintained a $1.0 billion multi-currency three-year unsecured revolving credit facility. This facility was due to expire in October 2012. 

The Company’s senior debt is currently rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. The Company’s short-term debt is currently rated P-2 by Moody’s and A-3 by Standard & Poor’s. The Company carries a stable outlook from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.

The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, primarily related to operations located outside the United States, aggregating $248 million at December 31, 2011 and $272 million at December 31, 2010. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities.

Share Repurchases

During 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 12.3 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of approximately $361 million at an average price per share of $29.44. During the third quarter of 2011 the Company received authorization to increase the share repurchase program to $1 billion from $500 million. The Company remains authorized to repurchase additional shares of its common stock up to a value of $553 million.  There is no time limit on this authorization. 

 44 

On September 15, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a $500 million share repurchase program. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased 3.4 million of its common stock for total consideration of $85.5 million. 

Dividends

The Company paid total dividends of $480 million in 2011 ($0.86 per share), $452 million in 2010 ($0.81 per share) and $431 million in 2009 ($0.80 per share).

Investing Cash Flows

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $457 million in 2011 compared with $535 million of net cash provided by investing activities in 2010. The Company made 12 acquisitions in 2011. Cash used for these acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $160 million compared with $427 million used for acquisitions in 2010. In addition, the Company recorded a liability of $33 million for estimated contingent purchase consideration related to the acquisitions completed in 2011. In 2011, the Company also paid $11 million for deferred purchase consideration, $62 million into escrow for future acquisitions and $4 million for the purchase of other intangible assets. In 2010, in addition to the cash paid, the Company issued approximately 7.6 million shares of common stock with an acquisition date value of $183 million, and also paid $60 million of deferred purchase consideration, $3 million for other intangible assets and $2 million of contingent purchase consideration related to acquisitions made in prior years. Remaining deferred cash payments of $201 million for acquisitions completed in 2011 and in prior years are recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011.

Cash provided by the sale of securities was $6 million and $32 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.

During 2010, the Company received $1.13 billion from its disposition of Kroll, which closed on August 3, 2010 and $110 million from the disposition of KLS which closed in the second quarter of 2010. 

The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $280 million in 2011 and $271 million in 2010, primarily relate to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs. In 2010, the additions to fixed assets and capitalized software include $13 million related to Kroll, which is classified in discontinued operations.

The Company has committed to potential future investments of approximately $80 million in connection with its investments in Trident II, and other funds managed by Stone Point Capital, LLC, and approximately $60 million in two private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies managed by companies unrelated to Stone Point Capital. The majority of the Company’s investment commitments for funds managed by Stone Point Capital, LLC are related to Trident II, the investment period for which is now closed for new investments. No significant future capital calls related to Trident II are expected.

Commitments and Obligations

The following sets forth the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 45 

The above does not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $143 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $12 million that may become payable during 2012. The above does not include the indemnified liabilities discussed in Note 16 as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities. The above does not include pension liabilities of approximately $1.5 billion because the timing and amount of ultimate payment of such liability is dependent upon future events, including, but not limited to, future returns on plan assets, and changes in the discount rate used to measure the liabilities. The amounts of estimated future benefits payments to be made from plan assets are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company expects to contribute approximately $124 million and $395 million in 2012 to its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively.

Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Legal and Other Loss Contingencies

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions. GAAP requires that a liability be recorded when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Significant management judgement is required to apply this guidance. The Company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.

In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs.

Retirement Benefits

The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws.

The Company recognizes the funded status of its overfunded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. These gains and losses are amortized prospectively out of AOCI over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees, or for plans in which substantially all the participants are inactive, over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive employees. 

The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and assumed rate of salary increase. Significant assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes the assumptions for each plan are reasonable and appropriate and will continue to evaluate actuarial 

 46 

assumptions at least annually and adjust them as appropriate. Based on its current assumptions, the Company expects pension expense in 2012 to increase approximately $30 million compared with 2011 before partly-offsetting impacts of bonuses and other incentive compensation and possible movements in foreign exchange rates.

Future pension expense or credits will depend on plan provisions, future investment performance, future assumptions and various other factors related to the populations participating in the pension plans. Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 87% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions will not necessarily have a linear impact on the net periodic pension cost.

The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these postretirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire, but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

The Company tax rate reflects its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process. The first step involves recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position derive from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings, and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the tax position. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.

Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue.

Tax law requires items be included in the Company's tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken 

 47 

already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. In assessing the need for and amount of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjusts the valuation allowance accordingly. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax-planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior carryback years if carryback is permitted under the appropriate tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company's recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carryforwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction.

Fair Value Determinations

Investment Valuation—The Company holds investments in private companies as well as certain private equity funds. Certain investments, primarily investments in private equity funds, are accounted for using the equity method. Although not directly recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, the Company defined benefit pension plans hold investments of approximately $10.7 billion. The fair value of these investments determines, in part, the over-or under-funded status of those plans, which is included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of its investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. The Company bases its review on the facts and circumstances as they relate to each investment. Fair value of investments in private equity funds is determined by the funds’ investment managers. Factors considered in determining the fair value of private equity investments include: implied valuation of recently completed financing rounds that included sophisticated outside investors; performance multiples of comparable public companies; restrictions on the sale or disposal of the investments; trading characteristics of the securities; and the relative size of the holdings in comparison to other private investors and the public market float. In those instances where quoted market prices are not available, particularly for equity holdings in private companies, or formal restrictions limit the sale of securities, significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate value of the Company’s investments. The Company reviews with the fund manager the appropriateness of valuation results for significant private equity investments.

Goodwill Impairment Testing—The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. The Company adopted new accounting guidance in the third quarter of 2011. Under this guidance, a company may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test. If, as a result of this qualitative assessment, a company determines the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not lower than its carrying value, a step 1 impairment assessment must be performed. The Company considered the totality of numerous factors, which included that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin in its most recent estimate of reporting unit fair values, whether significant acquisitions or dispositions occurred which might alter the fair values of its reporting units, macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on reporting unit fair values, actual performance compared with budget and prior projections used in its estimation of reporting unit fair values, industry and market conditions, and the year over year change in the Company's share price.

Based on its qualitative evaluation, the Company concluded that a two-step goodwill impairment test was not required.

Share-based Payment

The guidance for accounting for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated 

 48 

fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance.

As of December 31, 2011, there was $21.0 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average periods over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.6 years. Also as of December 31, 2011, there was $191 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and deferred stock unit awards.

See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding accounting for share-based payments.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Note 1 contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable.

 49 

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk