Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Interest Income Risk  

Our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. In addition, as of May 31, 2015, substantially all of our marketable securities are high quality with approximately 28% having maturity dates within one year and 72% having maturity dates within one to six years (see a description of our marketable securities held in Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above). We hold a mix of both fixed and floating rate debt securities. Our floating rate debt securities serve to lower the overall risk to our investments portfolio associated with the risk of rising interest rates. The fair values of our fixed rate debt securities are impacted by interest rate movements and if interest rates increased by 50 basis points as of May 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair  

76  

Table of Contents 

 values of our marketable securities holdings by $191 million. Substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. We generally do not use our investments for trading purposes.  

Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For fiscal 2015, total interest income was $349 million with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments yielding an average 0.79% on a worldwide basis. The table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2015 and 2014.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest Expense Risk  

Interest Expense Risk—Fixed to Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements   

Our total borrowings were $42.0 billion as of May 31, 2015, consisting of $39.7 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $2.3 billion of floating rate borrowings (Floating Rate Notes). During fiscal 2015, we issued $20.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $1.75 billion of floating rate notes and $18.25 billion of fixed rate notes as described in the “Recent Financing Activities” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) in this Annual Report. 

In July 2014, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $2.0 billion of 2.25% senior notes due October 2019 (2019 Notes) and our $1.5 billion of 2.80% senior notes due July 2021 (2021 Notes) so that the interest payable on the 2019 Notes and the 2021 Notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. In July 2013, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.375% senior notes due January 2019 (January 2019 Notes) so that the interest payable on the January 2019 Notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. The critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements match the critical terms of the 2019 Notes, 2021 Notes and the January 2019 Notes that the interest rate swap agreements pertain to, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. We do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. The total fair value gain of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements as of May 31, 2015 was $74 million. If LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points as of May 31, 2015, the change would decrease the fair values of the fixed to variable swap agreements by $221 million. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Notes 8 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

By issuing the Floating Rate Notes and entering into the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. As of May 31, 2015, the weighted average interest rate associated with our Floating Rate Notes and January 2019 Notes, 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements, was 0.79%. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. An interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. As of May 31, 2015, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $73 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating rate borrowings.  

77  

Table of Contents 

In July 2014, our 3.75% senior notes due July 2014 for $1.5 billion matured and were repaid, and we settled the fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements associated with such fixed rate senior notes.  

Currency Risk  

Foreign Currency Transaction and Translation Risks—Foreign Currency Borrowings and Related Hedges   

In July 2013, we issued €1.25 billion of 2.25% notes due January 2021 (January 2021 Notes) and we entered into certain cross-currency swap agreements to manage the related foreign exchange risk by effectively converting the fixed-rate Euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to a fixed-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The economic effect of the swap agreements was to eliminate the uncertainty of the cash flows in U.S. Dollars associated with the January 2021 Notes by fixing the principal amount of the January 2021 Notes at $1.6 billion with an annual interest rate of 3.53%. The critical terms of the cross-currency swap agreements match the critical terms of January 2021 Notes, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. We do not use these cross-currency swap arrangements for trading purposes. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815. The fair values of these cross-currency swap agreements as of May 31, 2015 and 2014 were a $(244) million loss and a $74 million gain, respectively. The changes in the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements during fiscal 2015 were primarily attributable to the decline in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar. If the Euro weakened by 10% as of May 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements by $174 million. If interest rates that correspond to the remaining term of the January 2021 Notes decreased by 100 basis points as of May 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements by $91 million. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related cross-currency swap agreements are included in Notes 8 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

In July 2013, we also issued €750 million of 3.125% notes due July 2025 (2025 Notes). We designated the 2025 Notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the Euro as their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar. As a result, the change in the carrying value of the Euro denominated 2025 Notes due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on the effective portion is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report and totaled $208 million of net other comprehensive gains for fiscal 2015. Any remaining change in the carrying value of the 2025 Notes representing the ineffective portion of the net investment hedge is recognized in non-operating income (expense), net. We did not record any ineffectiveness during fiscal 2015.  

Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar will impact the amount of U.S. Dollars that we will require to settle the 2025 Notes at maturity. If the U.S. Dollar weakened by 10% in comparison to the Euro as of May 31, 2015, we estimate our obligation to cash settle the principal portion of the 2025 Notes in U.S. Dollars would increase by approximately $81 million.  

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk—Foreign Currency Forward Contracts  

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. We may suspend this program from time to time. Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration.  

We neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to ASC 815. Accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. Given the short duration of the forward contracts, the amount recorded is  

78  

Table of Contents 

 not significant. The balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. The statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income (expense), net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses.  

We expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. As of May 31, 2015 and 2014, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.2 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. As of May 31, 2015 and 2014, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at May 31, 2015 and 2014. Net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $157 million, $375 million and $162 million in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were foreign currency remeasurement losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary’s operations of $23 million, $213 million and $64 million, respectively (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information). As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown.  

Foreign Currency Translation Risk—Impact on Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities  

Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars. In particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report).  

As the U.S. Dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2015, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of May 31, 2015 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2014. As reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effects of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in U.S. Dollars for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013 were decreases of $1.2 billion, $158 million and $110 million, respectively. The following table includes estimates of the U.S. Dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies that we held as of May 31, 2015:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

79  

Table of Contents 

If overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in U.S. Dollars would decrease by approximately $765 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data