PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environments—application, platform and infrastructure—and are available to customers either via cloud computing or on-premises deployment models. Our products include database and middleware software, application software, cloud infrastructure software and hardware systems (Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking and industry specific products), along with support and related services. We offer over 400,000 worldwide customers a choice of deployment models to best suit their needs including (1) the deployment of our products via our Oracle Cloud offerings, (2) the acquisition of Oracle products and services for an on-premises IT environment or (3) a mix of these two models.  

For customers opting for a cloud computing model, Oracle offers a wide range of services in all three primary layers of the cloud: Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Our Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be: rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; and cost effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment. Our Oracle Cloud offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers’ behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners’ cloud services and our customers’ cloud IT environments.  

In addition to offering a broad spectrum of cloud products and services, Oracle for decades has developed and sold its products and services to our customers worldwide for use in their global data centers and on-premises IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our software and cloud, hardware and services businesses. In fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, we invested $5.5 billion, $5.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products and services. We have a deep understanding as to how all components within IT environments—application, platform and infrastructure—interact and function with one another. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After purchasing Oracle products and services, customers can continue to take advantage of Oracle’s research and development investments and deep IT expertise by purchasing and renewing Oracle support offerings, which may include product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our Oracle E-Business Suite, Siebel, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards application software products, among others, or by renewing their SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.  

Oracle customers are increasingly electing to run their IT environments using our suite of Oracle Cloud offerings. As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of their IT resources are deployed and managed through the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT resources are deployed and managed on-premises, and both sets of resources can be managed as one. We focus the engineering of our products and services to best connect these different deployment models to enable flexibility, ease, agility, compatibility, extensibility and seamlessness.  

A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, contribute to our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy.  

3  

Table of Contents 

We have three businesses that deliver our application, platform and infrastructure technologies: software and cloud, hardware systems, and services. These businesses can be further divided into certain operating segments (Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report, provides additional information related to our operating segments):  

   •    our software and cloud business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions, which includes our SaaS and PaaS offerings, (2) cloud infrastructure as a service and (3) software license updates and product support. Our software and cloud business represented 77%, 76% and 75% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively;  

   •    our hardware systems business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware systems business represented 14% of our total revenues in each of fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013; and  

   •    our services business is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments and offers consulting services, enhanced support services and education services. Our services business represented 9%, 10% and 11% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977.  

Application, Platform and Infrastructure Technologies  

Oracle’s comprehensive portfolio of application, platform and infrastructure technologies address an organization’s business, infrastructure and development IT requirements. Our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are based upon industry standards and are designed to be enterprise grade, reliable, scalable and secure. We offer these technologies through our software and cloud, hardware and services businesses and deliver them through flexible and interoperable deployment models that enable customer choice and best meet customer IT needs.  

Application and Platform Technologies  

Our application and platform technologies consist of comprehensive software and cloud offerings including our SaaS and PaaS offerings, Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, and related support.  

Our application and platform technologies are substantially built on standards-based architectures that are designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructure. Our commitment to industry standards results in software that works in customer environments with Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components and that can be adapted to meet specific industry or business needs. This approach is designed to support customer choice and reduce customer risk. Our software offerings are substantially designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations for cloud or on-premises IT environments, and to support a choice of operating systems including Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products, among others.  

Our application and platform technologies are marketed, sold and delivered through our software and cloud business, which includes our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment and software license updates and product support segment, among others. New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues represented 26% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015 and 28% in each of fiscal 2014 and 2013. Software license updates and product support revenues represented 49%, 47% and 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

Application Technologies  

Our application technologies are available through the purchase of an on-premises software license or via subscription to our Oracle SaaS offerings. Regardless of the deployment model selected, our application technologies are designed to reduce the risk, cost and complexity of our customers’ IT infrastructures, while supporting customer choice with flexible deployment models that readily enable agility, compatibility and extendibility.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Our application technologies are designed using an industry standards-based architecture to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise, as well as to help customers differentiate and innovate in those processes unique to their industries or organizations. In addition to applications that are deployable to meet a number of business automation requirements across a broad range of industries, we also offer industry-specific applications through a focused strategy of investments in internal development and strategic acquisitions. Our industry specific applications provide solutions to customers in the communications, engineering and construction, financial services, healthcare, hospitality and retail, manufacturing, public and utilities sectors, among others. Our ability to offer applications to address industry specific complex processes provides us an opportunity to expand our customers’ knowledge of our broader product offerings and address customer specific technology challenges.  

Oracle Software as a Service (SaaS)  

Our broad spectrum of SaaS offerings provides customers a choice of software applications that are delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we host, manage and support. Our SaaS offerings are built upon open industry standards such as SQL, Java and HTML5 for easier application portability, integration and development. Our SaaS offerings include a broad suite of modular, next-generation cloud software applications that span core business functions including human capital management (HCM), customer experience (CX), enterprise resource planning (ERP), enterprise performance management (EPM) and supply chain management (SCM), among others. We also offer a number of cloud-based industry solutions to address specific customer needs within certain industries.  

We believe the comprehensiveness of our SaaS offerings provides greater benefit to our customers and differentiates us from many of our competitors that offer more limited or specialized cloud-based applications. Our SaaS offerings are designed to be interoperable with one another, thereby limiting the integration and tuning of multiple cloud applications from multiple vendors. Our SaaS offerings are designed to deliver secure data isolation and flexible upgrades, self-service access controls for users, a Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) for integration with on-premises systems, built-in social, mobile and business insight capabilities, and a high performance, high availability infrastructure based on our infrastructure technologies including Oracle Engineered Systems. These SaaS capabilities are designed to simplify IT environments and enable customers to focus resources on business growth opportunities.  

Oracle Human Capital Management Cloud  

Our HCM cloud applications are designed to be complete and integrated to help organizations find, grow and retain the best talent, enable collaboration, provide complete workforce insights, increase operational efficiency and enable people to connect from any device. Oracle HCM Cloud delivers global human resources, workforce rewards, workforce management and talent management cloud services.  

Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning Cloud  

Our ERP cloud applications are designed to be complete and integrated to help organizations achieve business insight, improve workforce productivity and operate globally. Oracle ERP Cloud delivers financial management, financial reporting, procurement and project portfolio management cloud services.  

Oracle Customer Experience Cloud  

Our CX cloud applications are designed to be complete and integrated to help organizations deliver consistent and personalized customer experiences across all channels, touch points and interactions. Our CX cloud applications include, among others:  

   •    Oracle Marketing Cloud, which is designed to personalize customer experiences on a consistent platform and to increase customer engagement, advocacy, and revenue generating possibilities using cross-channel, content, and social marketing solutions with integrated data management and activation;  

   •    Oracle Sales Cloud, which is designed to enable sales teams to engage with their customers earlier and to generate customer orders more frequently via a platform that equips sales teams with processes, tools, resources, and intelligence to leverage as a part of the sales cycle;  

5  

Table of Contents 

   •    Oracle Commerce Cloud, which is designed to enable secure customer transactions through almost any device, to be scalable and to support personalized customer experiences through customer search, merchandising, promotions, and content management capabilities;  

   •    Oracle Services Cloud, which is designed to provide a unified web, social, and contact center platform that is used to understand customer needs, to resolve customer problems and to ensure the delivery of accurate information to users; and  

   •    Oracle Configure, Price and Quote Cloud, which is designed to help sales teams, channels, and ecommerce sites sell faster, more easily, and more accurately through almost any device.  

Oracle Enterprise Performance Management Cloud  

Our EPM cloud applications are designed to be integrated to help organizations improve and simplify enterprise performance reporting and enterprise planning processes. Oracle EPM Cloud delivers financial and management reporting and planning and budgeting cloud services.  

Oracle Supply Chain Management Cloud  

Our SCM cloud applications are designed to help organizations optimize their supply chain and innovate products quickly. Oracle SCM Cloud delivers transportation and global trade management, inventory and cost management, innovation management and product development cloud services.  

Oracle Cloud Industry Solutions  

Oracle Cloud Industry Solutions are industry specific SaaS applications that are designed to address the distinct requirements of the communications, financial services, healthcare, hospitality and retail, manufacturing and utilities sectors, among others.  

Oracle Data as a Service  

Oracle Data as a Service (DaaS) provides a centralized way to source, manage and furnish external data to business users through a cloud service for marketing and customer intelligence purposes. Oracle DaaS offerings connect business users and applications to a rich set of information to inform business actions with a vendor-agnostic approach so customers can activate the data in an application or engine of choice.  

Oracle Applications  

We license Oracle Applications software for use in on-premises, data center and related IT environments to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise including human capital and talent management; customer experience and customer relationship management; financial management and governance, risk and compliance; procurement; project portfolio management; supply chain management; business analytics and enterprise performance management; and industry specific applications, among others. Our Oracle Applications software strategy is designed to provide customers with complete choice and a secure path to benefit from the latest technology advances.  

Our Oracle Applications Unlimited program is Oracle’s commitment to ongoing investment and innovation in our current application offerings including our Oracle E-Business Suite, Siebel, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards application software products, among others. Since announcing the Oracle Applications Unlimited program in 2005, we have delivered major releases of all application product lines by combining business functionality with innovative technologies, providing customers with more adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and optimal end-user productivity.  

Platform Technologies  

Our comprehensive platform technologies include license and subscription based database, middleware and development software offerings including Oracle Database software, the world’s most popular enterprise database, and Java, the computer industry’s most widely-used software development language, among others.  

6  

Table of Contents 

 Our platform technologies are designed to provide a cost-effective, standards-based, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for midsize businesses, as well as large, global enterprises. Our customers are increasingly focused on reducing the total cost of their IT infrastructure and we believe that our platform technologies help them achieve this goal.  

Our platform technologies are designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments using clustered middleware and database servers and storage. These clusters are designed to scale incrementally as required to address our customers’ IT capacity requirements, satisfy their planning and procurement needs, support their business applications with a standardized platform architecture, reduce their risk of data loss and IT infrastructure downtime and efficiently utilize available IT resources to meet quality of service expectations.  

Oracle Platform as a Service (PaaS)  

Oracle PaaS is designed to deliver Oracle Database, Java and other platform services in the cloud to enable developers to extend applications, including Oracle SaaS applications, or build new applications. Customers and partners can use our open, standards based platform services that are based on Oracle WebLogic Server and our Oracle Database Cloud service, including tools for rapid application development, flexible cloud-based file sharing and collaboration, intuitive business analysis and reporting, and mobile device connectivity.  

We believe our PaaS offerings are a large opportunity for us to expand our software and cloud business. We believe customers increasingly recognize the value of access to Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java via a low cost, rapidly deployable, flexible and interoperable services model that we manage and maintain on their behalf. We believe we can market and sell our PaaS offerings to our extensive installed base of database and middleware customers, and current and future users of our popular Java software development language, among others.  

Oracle Database Cloud Services  

Oracle Database Cloud Service provides customers with access to the Oracle Database via a cloud computing IT model and a customer choice of a dedicated database instance with direct network connections and full administrative control or a dedicated schema with a full development and deployment platform managed by Oracle.  

Oracle Database Backup Service is a secure, scalable, on-demand storage solution for backing up Oracle databases to an off-site storage location in the cloud.  

Oracle Business Intelligence Cloud Service  

Oracle Business Intelligence Cloud Service is a cloud-based, enterprise-class analytics platform for creating business intelligence applications that are designed to convert customer data into business insight, upon which these customers can optimize decision-making.  

Oracle Java Cloud Service  

Oracle Java Cloud Service is a complete platform and infrastructure cloud solution for building, deploying and managing Java EE applications. Oracle Java Cloud Service provides easy, rapid and agile deployment of any Java application—all on top of infrastructure provided by Oracle.  

Oracle Developer Cloud Service  

Oracle Developer Cloud Service is an easy-to-use, automatically provisioned enterprise development platform deployed in the cloud that supports the complete software development lifecycle.  

Oracle Documents Cloud Service  

Oracle Documents Cloud Service is an enterprise level, content collaboration solution that enables information to be accessed, uploaded and shared via a cloud computing IT environment that is provided and secured by Oracle.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Oracle Messaging Cloud Service  

Oracle Messaging Cloud Service is a cloud-based, reliable messaging service that enables communication between software components both on-premises and in the Oracle Cloud using standard interfaces.  

Oracle Database  

We license our Oracle Database software to customers, which is designed to enable reliable and secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including: transactional data, business information and analytics; semi-structured and unstructured data in the form of weblogs, text, social media feeds, XML files, office documents, images, video and spatial images; and other specialized forms of data, such as graph data. Oracle Database software is used for a variety of purposes, including with packaged applications and custom applications for transaction processing, data warehousing and business intelligence and as a document repository or specialized data store. Security continues to be a critical characteristic of the Oracle Database and our latest version, Oracle Database 12c, includes a number of security enhancements and new features including, among others, encryption of data in motion, conditional auditing, real application security, and transparent sensitive data protection. All security capabilities available are compatible with Oracle Database 12c’s new Oracle Multitenant architecture option, which enables customers to quickly and efficiently address the unique security requirements of each of their database instances.  

A number of optional add-on products are available with Oracle Database Enterprise Edition software to address specific customer requirements, including:  

   •    a comprehensive portfolio of advanced defense, in depth security solutions that safeguard data at the source including Oracle Advanced Security, Oracle Database Vault, and Oracle Data Masking and Subsetting, as well as detective security options including Oracle Audit Vault and Database Firewall. Oracle Database security options are designed to ensure data privacy, protect against insider threats, and enable regulatory compliance for both Oracle and non-Oracle databases;  

   •    in the areas of cloud computing and consolidation, we offer a new Oracle Multitenant software option that is designed to make it easier to consolidate multiple databases quickly and manage them as a cloud service, which enables customers to easily consolidate multiple databases into one without changing their applications. Our Oracle Multitenant architecture option offers the efficiency and cost savings of managing many databases at one time, yet retains the isolation and resource prioritization of separate databases that is necessary for multitenant cloud services; and  

   •    in the areas of performance and scalability, we offer Oracle Real Application Clusters, Oracle Database In-Memory, Oracle Advanced Compression and Oracle Partitioning software options. Deploying Oracle Database In-Memory option with virtually any existing Oracle Database compatible application requires no application changes as it is fully integrated with Oracle Database’s scale-up, scale-out, storage tiering, availability and security technologies, which makes any Oracle in-memory database enterprise-ready.  

In addition to Oracle Database, we also offer a portfolio of specialized database software products to address particular customer requirements, including the following:  

   •    MySQL, the world’s most popular open source database, designed for high performance and scalability of web applications and embedded applications, available in Enterprise, Standard, Classic, Cluster and Community editions;  

   •    Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, designed to deliver real-time data management and transaction processing speeds for performance-critical applications. Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database can serve as a cache to accelerate Oracle Database and can work as a standalone database at the application tier;  

   •    Oracle Berkeley DB, a family of open source, embeddable, relational, XML and key-value (NoSQL) databases designed for developers to embed within their applications and devices; and  

   •    Oracle NoSQL Database, a distributed key-value database designed for high availability and massive scalability of high volume transaction processing with predictable low-latency.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Big Data  

Oracle offers big data solutions to complement and extend its Oracle Database software offerings. Big data generally refers to a massive amount of unstructured, streaming and structured data that is so large that it is difficult to process using traditional IT techniques. As businesses drive more of their critical operations and information management through IT solutions, the volume of this data generated by businesses is increasing at unprecedented levels.  

We believe most businesses view big data as a high-value source of business intelligence that can be used to gain new insights into customer behavior, anticipate future demand more accurately, align workforce deployment with business activity forecasts and accelerate the pace of operations, among others. Oracle offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and services to help enterprises capture, manage, and analyze big data alongside an enterprise’s existing enterprise and streaming data.  

Our big data solutions for capturing unstructured, streaming and structured data complement existing Oracle Database environments and include Oracle NoSQL Database and popular open source software such as the Hadoop File System. Oracle Data Integration and Oracle Big Data Connectors are designed to easily and non-invasively integrate data from Hadoop file systems or Oracle NoSQL databases and Oracle databases to enable a data warehouse to further organize, analyze, interpret, report on and act on information from these high volume data sources.  

We offer Oracle Business Analytics products that are designed to leverage big data and enterprise data to enable organizations to analyze the data and discover new ways to strategize, plan, optimize business operations and capture new market opportunities. Oracle Business Analytics products include data discovery software, enterprise performance management and analytic application software, business intelligence software, and predictive analytics and self-learning decision optimization software. The Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine is designed to run analytic environments at optimal performance and scale, which is ideal for use with big data environments.  

Oracle Fusion Middleware  

We license our Oracle Fusion Middleware software, which is a broad family of integrated application infrastructure software products. These products are designed to form a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy, secure, access and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. Built with our Java technology platform, Oracle Fusion Middleware products can be used as a foundation for custom, packaged and composite applications—or applications that can be deployed in cloud environments.  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software is designed to protect customers’ IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle database, middleware and application software through its open architecture and adherence to industry standards. Specifically, Oracle Fusion Middleware software is designed to enable customers to integrate Oracle and non-Oracle business applications, automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence; all while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware software supports multiple development languages and tools, which enables developers to build and deploy web services, websites, portals and web-based applications.  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software is available in various software products and suites, including the following:  

   •    Oracle WebLogic Server and Oracle Cloud Application Foundation, designed to be the most complete, best-of-breed platform for developing cloud applications;  

   •    Oracle SOA Suite of software products used to create, deploy and manage applications on a Service-Oriented Architecture;  

   •    Oracle Data Integration software products, which are designed to enable pervasive and continuous access to timely and trusted data across heterogeneous systems, including real-time and bulk data movement, transformation, bi-directional replication, data services and data quality for customer and product domains;  

9  

Table of Contents 

   •    Oracle Business Process Management Suite software products that are designed to enable businesses and IT professionals to design, implement, automate and evolve business processes and workflows within and across organizations;  

   •    Oracle WebCenter software products, a complete set of web experience management, portals, content management and social networks software, designed to help people work together more efficiently through contextual collaboration tools that optimize connections between people, information and applications and to ensure users have access to the right information in the context of the business process in which they are engaged;  

   •    Oracle Business Intelligence Suite, a comprehensive set of analytic software products designed to provide customers with the information they need to make better business decisions;  

   •    Oracle Identity Management software, which is designed to enable customers to manage internal and external users, to secure corporate information from potential software threats and to streamline compliance initiatives while lowering the total cost of their security and compliance initiatives; and  

   •    Development Tools for application development, database development and business intelligence, including Oracle JDeveloper, an integrated software environment designed to facilitate rapid development of applications using Oracle Fusion Middleware and popular open source technologies.  

Mobile Computing  

Among its other middleware offerings, Oracle provides a wide range of software for mobile computing to address the development needs of businesses that are increasingly focused on delivering mobile device applications to their customers. For example, Oracle Mobile Platform enables developers to build and extend enterprise applications for popular mobile devices from a single code base. Oracle Mobile Platform supports access to native device services, enables offline applications and is designed to protect enterprise investments from future technology shifts. Oracle Mobile Security offers comprehensive mobile identity and application management for provisioning of trusted access. Oracle Business Intelligence Mobile provides business intelligence functionality, from interactive dashboards to location intelligence, while enabling users to initiate business processes from a mobile device.  

Java  

Java is the computer industry’s most widely-used software development language and is viewed as a global standard. The Java programming language and platform together represent one of the most popular and powerful development environments in the world, one that is used by millions of developers globally to develop business applications. Oracle Fusion Middleware software products and certain of our Oracle Applications are built using our Java technology platform, which we believe is a key advantage for our business.  

Java is designed to enable developers to write software on a single platform and run it on many other different platforms, independent of operating system and hardware architecture. Java has been adopted by both independent software vendors (ISV) that have built their products on Java and by enterprise organizations building custom applications or consuming Java-based ISV products.  

Software License Updates and Product Support  

We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current investments in Oracle application and platform technologies by offering proactive and personalized support services, including Oracle Lifetime Support and product enhancements and upgrades. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content through “My Oracle Support”. Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they acquire new software licenses and renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Cloud Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)  

Our Oracle IaaS offerings, which are a part of our software and cloud business and represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2015 and 1% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2014 and 2013, provide deployment and management offerings for our software and hardware and related IT infrastructure, including:  

   •    comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a stated term that is hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premises at customer facilities;  

   •    virtual machine instance services in which we deploy, secure, provision, manage and maintain certain of our hardware products for our customers to provide them with a set of cloud-based core infrastructure capabilities like elastic compute and storage services to run workloads in the cloud; and  

   •    hardware and related support services offerings for certain of our Oracle Engineered Systems that are deployed at our customers’ data centers for a monthly fee that includes the option of elastic compute capacity on demand and Oracle Platinum and PlatinumPlus Services for a higher level of support and advisory services designed to ensure these hardware products remain configured and tuned correctly with quarterly automated assessments for performance, availability and security.  

Infrastructure Technologies  

Oracle infrastructure technologies consist of our hardware systems products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking, industry specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, management software and related hardware services including support. We also offer Oracle IaaS, which provides elastic compute and storage capabilities, among others.  

Our infrastructure technologies help customers manage growing amounts of data and business requirements, meet increasing compliance and regulatory demands and reduce energy, space and operational costs. Our infrastructure technologies support many of the world’s largest on-premises and cloud IT environments, including the Oracle Cloud. Our infrastructure technologies are designed to seamlessly connect on-premises and cloud IT environments to further enable interoperability, interchangeability and extendibility. We design our infrastructure technologies to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. Our flexible and open approach provides Oracle customers with a broad range of choices in how they deploy our infrastructure technologies, which we believe is a priority for our customers.  

We focus the operation and integration of our infrastructure technologies to make them easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve computing performance relative to our competitors’ offerings. For example, our Oracle Engineered Systems are designed to integrate multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors’ products. These same Oracle technology components are tested together and supported together to streamline system deployment and maintenance cycles. We also engineer our hardware systems with virtualization and management capabilities to enable the rapid deployment and efficient management of cloud and on-premises IT infrastructures.  

Our infrastructure technologies are substantially marketed, sold and delivered through our hardware business, which includes our hardware systems products segment and hardware systems support segment. Our hardware systems products revenues represented 8% of our total revenues in each of fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013. Our hardware systems support revenues represented 6% of our total revenues in each of fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Oracle Engineered Systems  

Oracle Engineered Systems are core to our infrastructure technology offerings and are important elements of our data center and cloud computing offerings including the Oracle Cloud. These pre-integrated products are designed to integrate multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors’ products, to be upgraded effectively and efficiently and to simplify maintenance cycles by providing a single solution for software patching. They are tested before they are shipped to customers and delivered ready-to-run, enabling customers to shorten the time to production. Oracle’s Engineered Systems include:  

   •    Oracle Exadata Database Machine, a family of integrated software and hardware products that combines our database, storage and operating system software with our server, storage and networking hardware and is designed to provide a high performance database system for online transaction processing and data warehousing applications;  

   •    Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, an engineered system that combines Oracle Fusion Middleware software with our server, storage and networking hardware to run Java and non-Java applications and provide customers with an applications platform for cloud computing;  

   •    Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine, a single server that is designed to be configured for in-memory analytics for business intelligence workloads;  

   •    Oracle SuperCluster, a general purpose engineered system that combines the optimized database performance of Oracle Exadata storage and the accelerated middleware and application processing of the Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud on a SPARC/Solaris platform;  

   •    Oracle Private Cloud Appliance, an engineered system delivering converged infrastructure for virtualized environments that is designed to be simple to use, rapidly deployable and capable of running almost any application built upon Linux, Microsoft Windows or Oracle Solaris operating systems;  

   •    Oracle Database Appliance, an integrated, fault resilient system of database, operating system and virtualization software, servers, storage and networking hardware in a single box that is designed to deliver high availability database services for a wide range of homegrown and packaged online transaction processing (OLTP) and data warehousing applications;  

   •    Oracle Big Data Appliance, a scalable, engineered system designed for acquiring, organizing and loading unstructured data into a Hadoop file system or Oracle NoSQL Database and optionally integrating that data with Oracle Databases. The key components of a big data platform are integrated into the Oracle Big Data Appliance to reduce deployment, integration and management risks in comparison to custom-built solutions; and  

   •    Oracle Zero Data Loss Recovery Appliance, an engineered system that is integrated with Oracle Database and is designed to eliminate data loss exposure for databases without impacting production environments.  

Servers  

We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor, which are designed to be differentiated by their reliability, security and scalability. Our SPARC-based T5 mid-range server and M6 high-end servers, for example, are designed to offer better performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Measurably increasing computing performance and reliability, these servers are ideal platforms for building cloud computing IT environments. We also offer servers using microprocessors from Intel Corporation (Intel). By offering customers a range of microprocessors, we intend to offer our customers maximum flexibility in choosing the types of hardware systems that they believe will be most appropriate and valuable for their particular IT environments.  

Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed for mission critical enterprise environments. SPARC servers are also a core component of the Oracle SuperCluster, one of our Oracle Engineered Systems.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Our Intel-based enterprise x86 servers are compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our x86 servers are also a core component of many of our Oracle Engineered Systems including Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine and the Oracle Big Data Appliance.  

Storage 

Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers’ mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, flash and hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our storage products are designed to improve data availability by providing fast data access and dynamic data protection for back-up and restoration and secure archiving for compliance. Our storage products are co-engineered with Oracle software and designed to provide performance benefits for our customers in Oracle Database and Oracle Applications environments, as well as to work with multi-vendor application and systems environments to maximize performance and efficiency while minimizing management overhead and lowering the total cost of ownership.  

Our Oracle ZFS Storage Appliance is designed to improve Network Attached Storage (NAS) performance and manageability and lower total cost of ownership by combining our advanced storage operating system with high-performance controllers, DRAM and flash-based caches and disks. The foundation of our Oracle FS1 flash storage system, targeted at flash Storage Area Network (SAN) environments, is a patented quality-of-service architecture designed to meet business critical service level agreements for dynamic, multi-application workloads and enable customers to consolidate storage applications into a single data center storage solution.  

Our tape storage product line includes Oracle StorageTek libraries, drives, virtualization systems, media and associated software packages that provide data lifecycle management, deep analytics and file access through the familiar “drag-and-drop” paradigm. In addition to serving in tape’s traditional role as enterprise data backup, these products are intended to provide robust, scalable solutions at a lower total cost of ownership for long-term data archiving and preservation in vertical industries such as communications, energy, healthcare and internet, among others.  

Networking and Data Center Fabric Products  

Our networking and data center fabric products, including Oracle Virtual Networking, and Oracle InfiniBand and Ethernet products, are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools to help enterprise customers improve infrastructure performance, reduce cost and complexity and simplify storage and server connectivity.  

Industry Specific Hardware Offerings  

We offer hardware products and services designed for specific industries. Our point-of-sale hardware offerings include point-of-sale terminals and related hardware that are designed for managing businesses within the food and beverage, hotel and retail industries, among others. Our hardware products and services for communications networks include network signaling, policy control and subscriber data management solutions, and session border control technology, among others.  

Oracle Solaris and Oracle Linux Operating Systems, Virtualization and Other Hardware-Related Software  

The Oracle Solaris operating system is designed to provide a reliable, secure and scalable operating system environment through significant kernel feature development, networking, security, and file system technologies as well as close integration with hardware features. This design provides us with an ability to combine Oracle Solaris with our own hardware components to achieve certain performance and efficiency advantages in comparison to our competitors. The Oracle Solaris operating system is based on the UNIX operating system, but is unique among UNIX systems in that it is available on our SPARC servers and x86 servers. We also support Oracle Solaris deployed on other companies’ hardware products.  

13  

Table of Contents 

The Oracle Linux operating system with Oracle’s Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel is a Linux operating system for enterprise workloads including databases, middleware and applications. Oracle’s Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel is designed to work well with Oracle products and enables users to patch core operating systems without downtime.  

Oracle provides a broad portfolio of virtualization solutions from the desktop to the data center. Oracle VM is server virtualization software for both Oracle SPARC and x86 servers and supports both Oracle and non-Oracle applications. Oracle VM software is designed to enable different applications to share a single physical system for higher utilization and efficiency and simplify software deployment by enabling pre-configured software images to be created and rapidly deployed without installation or configuration errors. In addition, Oracle Solaris 11 provides comprehensive, built-in virtualization capabilities for both SPARC and x86 servers, networking and storage resources.  

In addition to Oracle Solaris and Oracle Linux operating systems and Oracle’s virtualization software, we also develop a range of other hardware-related software, including development tools, compilers, management tools for servers and storage, diagnostic tools and file systems.  

Management Software  

Oracle invests in a range of management technologies and products in order to meet the needs of customers building and efficiently operating complex IT environments, including both end users’ and service providers’ cloud environments. Oracle Enterprise Manager is a comprehensive management solution for all Oracle infrastructure, platform and applications technologies and provides an integrated view of the entire IT lifecycle including deployment, monitoring, and lifecycle management. Oracle Enterprise Manager can be applied to traditional on-premises, cloud, and hybrid cloud environments in a seamless manner via a single interface, which accelerates customer deployment of and transition to the cloud with Oracle products. Oracle also enhances and integrates with certain key open technologies including OpenStack, which is broadly supported by Oracle products for customers that require seamless integration with this method of cloud management and provisioning. The combination of Oracle’s comprehensive solutions and investments in open standards allows Oracle customers to manage Oracle products efficiently across a range of IT offerings from traditional on-premises environments to the most advanced cloud architectures.  

Hardware Systems Support  

Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. We continue to evolve hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new and renewed hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware systems products. Hardware systems support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware systems products fees.  

Services   

We offer services solutions to help customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle application, platform and infrastructure technologies. We believe our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services business represented 9%, 10% and 11% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our services business, which is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments, offers the following:  

   •    consulting services that are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our products, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, consisting of on-premises consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers;  

14  

Table of Contents 

   •    advanced customer support services, which are provided on-premises and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services; and  

   •    education services for Oracle products and services, including training and certification programs that are offered to customers, partners and employees through a variety of formats, including instructor led classes at our education centers, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training.  

Marketing and Sales  

We directly market and sell our products and services to businesses of many sizes and in many industries, government agencies and educational institutions. We also market and sell our products through indirect channels. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013.  

In the United States, our sales and services employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the country. Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries sell, support and service our products and offerings in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. Our international operations subject us to certain risks, which are more fully described in “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report. A summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle Partner Network. The Oracle Partner Network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers that deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our product offerings. By offering our partners access to our product offerings, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle Partner Network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels including independent distributors and value added resellers.  

Seasonality and Cyclicality  

Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. See “Selected Quarterly Financial Data” in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins.  

Competition  

We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change.  

Our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems. Our enterprise software and cloud and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, including Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Intel, Hewlett-Packard Company (HP) and SAP AG and smaller companies like  

15  

Table of Contents 

 salesforce.com, inc. and Workday, Inc., as well as many others. In addition, due to the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments, new technologies and new and growing competitors frequently emerge to challenge our offerings. Our competitors range from companies offering broad IT solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. In addition, as we expand into new market segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed like Amazon.com, Inc. Moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions—including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines—which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories.  

Key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. Our product and service sales (and the relative strength of our products and services versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things:  

   •    the adoption of cloud based IT offerings including software as a service, platform as a service and infrastructure as a service offerings;  

   •    total cost of ownership;  

   •    ease of deployment, use and maintenance of our products and services offerings;  

   •    compatibility between Oracle products and services deployed within on-premises IT environments and public cloud IT environments, including our Oracle Cloud environments;  

   •    the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors;  

   •    the broader “platform” competition between our industry standard Java technology platform and the .NET programming environment of Microsoft;  

   •    operating system competition among our Oracle Solaris and Linux operating systems, with alternatives including Microsoft’s Windows Server, and other UNIX and Linux operating systems;  

   •    the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers;  

   •    products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their IT staff;  

   •    products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and  

   •    attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers.  

For more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

Manufacturing  

To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our Oracle Engineered Systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers, storage systems and networking products. For all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. Our manufacturing processes substantially are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a “build-to-order” methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. Production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. For most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available.  

16  

Table of Contents 

 However, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. As a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. Refer to “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A within this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business.  

Research and Development  

We develop the substantial majority of our products internally. In addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. While we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. Research and development expenditures were $5.5 billion, $5.2 billion and $4.9 billion in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or 14% of total revenues in fiscal 2015 and 13% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2014 and 2013. Rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and cloud and hardware markets in which we compete. We plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings.  

Employees  

As of May 31, 2015, we employed approximately 132,000 full-time employees, including approximately 35,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 11,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 6,000 in our cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS operations, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 5,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 23,000 in services, approximately 38,000 in research and development and approximately 13,000 in general and administrative positions. Of these employees, approximately 49,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 83,000 were employed internationally. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries labor unions or workers’ councils represent some of our employees.  

Available Information  

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers are listed below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Ms. Catz, 53, has been our Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. She served as our President from January 2004 to September 2014, our Chief Financial Officer most recently from April 2011 until September 2014 and a Director since October 2001. She was previously our Chief Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and our Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. Prior to being named our President, she held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. She also currently serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.  

Mr. Hurd, 58, has been our Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. He served as our President from September 2010 to September 2014 and a Director since September 2010. Prior to joining us, he served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of HP from September 2006 to August 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the Board of Directors of HP from April 2005 to August 2010.  

Mr. Ellison, 70, has been our Chairman of the Board and Chief Technology Officer since September 2014. He served as our Chief Executive Officer from June 1977, when he founded Oracle, until September 2014. He has served as a Director since June 1977. He previously served as our Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.  

Mr. Henley, 70, has served as our Vice Chairman of the Board since September 2014. He previously served as our Chairman of the Board from January 2004 to September 2014 and has served as a Director since June 1995. He served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004.  

Mr. Kurian, 48, has been our President, Product Development since January 2015. He served as our Executive Vice President, Product Development from July 2009 until January 2015. He served as our Senior Vice President of Development from February 2001 until July 2009. Mr. Kurian worked in Oracle Server Technologies as Vice President of Development from March 1999 until February 2001. He also held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1996.  

Mr. Fowler, 54, has been Executive Vice President, Systems since February 2010. Prior to Oracle’s acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc., Mr. Fowler served as Sun’s Executive Vice President, Systems Group from May 2006 to February 2010, as Executive Vice President, Network Systems Group from May 2004 to May 2006 and as Chief Technology Officer, Software Group from July 2002 to May 2004.  

Ms. Daley, 56, has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2015 and was our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 2007 to April 2015. She served as our Vice President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004 and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October 2001. She held various other positions with us since joining Oracle’s Legal Department in 1992.  

Mr. West, 53, has been our Executive Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2015. He served as our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from February 2008 to April 2015 and served as our Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. His previous experience includes 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a partner.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors