Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)

General

On February 19, 2015 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed its acquisition (Acquisition) of Covance Inc. (Covance), a leading drug development services company and a leader in nutritional analysis, for $6,150.7. The Acquisition contributed $2,209.7 to the Company's total net revenue from the Acquisition Date driving 36.7% year over year net growth. The Company expects the inclusion of Covance for a full twelve months in 2016 will provide an approximate 4.0% increase in revenue based upon Covance's pre-acquisition 2015 net revenues. Organic revenue growth in 2015, excluding currency, was 4.6%. 

The Company achieved $45.0 in synergies in 2015 as a result of the Acquisition and expects annual cost synergies in excess of $100.0 to be fully realized within three years of closing the transaction. The Company's 2015 results were impacted by increased interest expense and historically lower margins from Covance. The Company is committed to maintaining its investment grade credit rating and plans to use its operating cash flows to meet its annual capital expenditure requirements and to reduce its overall debt leverage, while evaluating other strategic opportunities for deployment of its capital.

 The Company has seen growth in the amount of its patient accounts receivable. A significant portion of the Company’s bad debt expense is related to LCD accounts receivable from patients. The Company believes its current allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to properly record its accounts receivable at their estimated net realizable value. Should the shift towards increased patient responsibility continue, the Company may need to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts and bad debt expense in future periods.

Prior to the first quarter of 2015, the chief operating decision maker (CODM) managed the operating results of the Company as two segments: clinical laboratory diagnostics and other. In connection with the Acquisition, the Company changed its operating segments to align with how the CODM evaluates financial information used to allocate resources and assess performance of the Company following the Acquisition. The segment information presented in the Company's consolidated financial statements has been conformed to present segments on this revised basis for all prior periods. Under the new organizational structure, the CODM manages the Company under two reportable segments: LabCorp Diagnostics (LCD) and Covance Drug Development (CDD). LCD includes the Company's legacy LabCorp business, and the Company's nutritional chemistry and food safety business, which were previously part of Covance, but excludes LabCorp’s legacy clinical trials testing business, which is now part of CDD. CDD includes the Covance legacy business, and LabCorp’s legacy clinical trials testing business, but excludes Covance's nutritional chemistry and food safety business, which are now part of LCD. 

Seasonality

The Company experiences seasonality in both segments of its business. The majority of LCD's testing volume is dependent on patient visits to physician offices and other providers of healthcare. Testing volume in both segments generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, testing volume also declines due to inclement weather which may reduce net revenues and cash flows. CDD's operations are also impacted by changes in the global economy, exchange rate fluctuations, the progress of ongoing studies and the start-up of new studies, as well as the level of expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development (R&D). Given the seasonality of the business, comparison of the results for successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.

Results of Operations (amounts in millions)

Years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013

Net Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 was driven primarily by the Acquisition along with strong organic volume growth in LCD and tuck-in acquisitions, price, and mix, partially offset by currency.

 49

Index

LCD net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $6,199.3, an increase of 6.2% over net revenues of $5,838.0 in the corresponding period in 2014. The increase in net revenues was driven by organic volume growth, measured by requisitions of 3.2%. Beacon LBS, the Company's technology-enabled solution providing point-of-care decision support, contributed 0.9%. The increase in net revenues was unfavorably impacted by (0.8%) of currency. Revenue per requisition favorably impacted revenue by 0.4%. In addition, acquisitions added 2.5% to net revenues. 

CDD net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $2,306.4, an increase of 1,228.5% over net revenues of $173.6 in the corresponding period in 2014. The increase in net revenues was due to the Acquisition. Approximately 52.1% of CDD's net revenues are billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, with the Swiss franc, British pound, and the Euro representing approximately 66.8% of CDD's total currency exposure. The 2014 CDD net revenue amount represents LabCorp’s legacy clinical trials testing business.

The increase in LCD net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 was driven primarily by strong organic volume growth and the benefit of fold-in acquisitions, along with growth in the Company's managed care business and toxicology testing, partially offset by test and payer mix. During 2014, the impact of weather reduced LCD's revenues by an estimated $40.0. The increase in revenue per requisition in core testing is the result of the number of tests per requisition and a change in the mix of testing within that category. The decline in revenue per requisition in genomic and esoteric testing is primarily a result of a change in the mix of tests within those categories. 

During 2013, the impact of weather, reduced LCD's revenues by an estimated $12.7, of which $5.3 occurred in the fourth quarter. The 2013 decline in revenue per requisition in genomic and esoteric testing is a result of a change in mix of genetic and histology testing. Histology revenue per requisition was also impacted by payment reductions on the Medicare physician fee schedule. Further, revenue per requisition also decreased due to delays in payments and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payers after implementation of new molecular pathology codes at the beginning of the year and the implementation of sequestration on April 1, 2013. 

CDD net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $173.6, an increase of 25.0% over net revenues of $138.9 in the corresponding period in 2013. This increase in net revenues was driven by organic volume growth, measured by requisitions of 27.9%, offset by revenue per requisition of (2.9%). 

Net Cost of Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cost of revenues (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) increased 47.1% in 2015 as compared with the 2014 primarily due to the Acquisition. Excluding acquisitions, net costs of revenues increased approximately 4.2% due to increased volume, measured by requisitions, and test mix changes. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2014 as compared to 2013 is due to the increased number of tests per requisition. The increase in net cost of revenues in 2015 was favorably impacted by a net reduction of (0.8%) due to currency fluctuations. 

Labor and testing supplies for the year ended December 31, 2015, comprise over 75.5% of the Company’s net cost of revenues. Net cost of revenues has increased over the three-year period ended December 31, 2015 primarily due to the impact of acquisitions, overall growth in the Company's volume and increases in labor. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 19.0% in 2015 compared to 19.9% in 2014. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues is primarily due to the Acquisition and the impact of Project LaunchPad, LCD's comprehensive, enterprise-wide business process improvement initiative, and integration synergies. In addition, bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues for LCD decreased to 4.3% of net revenues for that segment compared to 4.6% during 2014. This improvement in LCD's bad debt expense is a result of the segment's focus on improved cash collections and other related Project LaunchPad initiatives. As discussed in Restructuring and Other Special 

 50

Index

Charges, the Company incurred $164.5 in one-time, non-recurring fees and expenses in 2015. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2015 was impacted by a net reduction of (0.8%) due to currency fluctuations. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased to 19.9% in 2014 compared to 19.4% in 2013. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues is partially due to $13.8 in fees related to acquisitions recorded in 2014. Additionally, bad debt expense increased to 4.6% of net revenues in 2014 as compared to 4.4% of net revenues in 2013. The Company also recorded $18.6 in consulting expenses (recorded in selling, general and administrative) relating to fees incurred as part of its business process improvement initiative as well as one-time CFO transition costs.

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily reflect the net impact of the Acquisition. 

The decrease in amortization of intangibles and other assets in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily reflect the net impact of acquisitions closed during 2014 offset by adjustments to the fair value of deferred acquisition payments. 

Restructuring and Other Special Charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2015, the Company recorded net restructuring and other special charges of $113.9; $39.2 within LCD and $74.7 within CDD. The charges were comprised of $59.2 related to severance and other personnel costs along with $55.8 in costs associated with facility closures and general integration initiatives. A substantial portion of these costs relate to the planned closure of two CDD operations that serviced a minimum volume contract that expired on October 31, 2015. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $1.1 in unused facility-related costs. Included within the facility-related charges noted above is a $26.7 asset impairment charge relating to CDD lab and customer service applications that will no longer be used. 

 The Company incurred additional legal and other costs of $5.7 relating to the wind-down of the minimum volume contract operations referred to in the previous paragraph. On February 9, 2016, the Company reached an agreement for the sale of the assets and business of one of these sites. As required by U.K. law, substantially all of the employees were transferred with the business. The Company also recorded $25.6 in consulting expenses relating to fees incurred as part of Project LaunchPad as well as Covance integration costs and employee compensation studies, along with $5.4 in short-term equity retention arrangements relating to the acquisition of Covance and $0.3 of accelerated equity compensation relating to the previously disclosed retirement of a Company executive (all recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses). During the fourth quarter, the Company paid $12.2 in settlement costs and litigation expenses related to the resolution of a U.S. federal court putative class action lawsuit. In addition, the Company incurred $3.0 of non-capitalized costs associated with the implementation of a major system as part of Project Launchpad. 

During 2014, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $17.8. The charges were comprised of $10.5 in severance and other personnel costs and $8.4 in facility-related costs primarily associated with general integration activities. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $0.4 in unused severance and $0.7 in unused facility-related costs.

In addition, during 2014, the Company recorded $18.6 in consulting expenses (recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses) relating to fees incurred as part of its business process improvement initiative as well as one-time CFO transition costs. The Company also recorded $10.8 of costs related to the Covance acquisition, of which $4.8 is included in selling, general and administrative expenses and $6.0 is included in interest expense. 

During 2013, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $21.8. The charges were comprised of $15.4 in severance and other personnel costs and $9.5 in facility-related costs primarily associated with the ongoing integration of Orchid and the 

 51

Index

Integrated Genetics business (formerly Genzyme Genetics) and costs associated with the previously announced termination of an executive vice president. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $0.7 in unused severance and $2.4 in unused facility-related costs. 

During 2014, the Company announced Project Launchpad, a comprehensive business process improvement initiative to re-engineer LCD's systems and processes to leverage technological advancements, create a sustainable and more efficient business model and improve the experience of all stakeholders. The Company expects this initiative to drive savings in excess of $150.0 over a three year period beginning in 2015, with associated one-time costs of approximately $30.0. The Company believes that any restructuring costs which may be incurred in future periods will be more than offset by subsequent savings realized from these potential actions and that any related restructuring charges will not have a material impact on the Company's operations or liquidity.

Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense for 2015 as compared with 2014 is primarily due to the issuance of $3,900 in debt and other financing costs in connection with the Acquisition. Another component of the increase was a $37.4 make-whole payment that was required in connection with the prepayment of $250.0 Covance senior notes. In addition, the Company recorded $15.2 in interest expense relating to the deferred financing cost associated with the Company's previous credit agreement and a term loan bridge financing facility to complete the Acquisition. The bridge facility was repaid in March 2015. 

The increase in interest expense for 2014 as compared with 2013 is primarily due to the issuance of $700.0 of senior notes in November 2013, reductions in borrowings under the Company's former Revolving Credit Facility, and Covance-related financing activities. This increase was also partially offset by a decrease in interest expense on the Company's senior notes due 2020 as a result of entering into a fixed to floating interest rate swap in the third quarter of 2013. 

Equity Method Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity method income represents the Company's ownership share in joint venture partnerships along with equity investments in other companies in the healthcare industry. All of these partnerships reside within LCD. The decrease in income in 2015 was primarily due to liquidation of the Company's interest in one of the partnerships effective June 30, 2015. 

The decrease in income in 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily the result of a decline in profitability of one of the Company's joint venture partnerships due to a challenging business climate in its market. 

Other, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other, net represents the Company's gain on the sale of its investment in an equity security, partially offset by the impairment of other investments. The decrease in other, net was due to the dissolution of one of the Company's equity investments in 2015 as compared to a gain on the sale of investment of an equity investment in 2014. 

Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 52

Index

The effective rate for 2015 was unfavorably impacted by one-time restructuring and acquisition items, recording of additional uncertain tax reserves, and a decrease in the benefit recorded from releasing uncertain tax reserves. The 2015 rate was favorably impacted by CDD foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate.

The effective rate for 2014 was unfavorably impacted by the recording of a full valuation allowance for the write-down of two of the Company's investments. 

The effective rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by the release of a capital loss valuation allowance and recording two years of a R&D tax credit. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was enacted in early 2013 and reinstated the R&D tax credit for 2012 and extended the credit for calendar year 2013.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position

The Company's strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company's principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow, supplemented by proceeds from debt offerings. The Company's senior unsecured revolving credit facility is further discussed in Note 11 (Debt) to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In summary the Company's cash flows were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $716.4, $580.0, and $404.0, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, such as commercial paper, time deposits and other money market investments, substantially all of which have original maturities of three months or less. 

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $982.4 compared to $739.0 for the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in cash provided by operations was due primarily to additional cash generated by CDD operations following the Acquisition as well as improved working capital. While there were lower net earnings due to the Acquisition, this included a number of one-time non-cash charges. The Company’s earnings were impacted by restructuring and special items of $113.9 during 2015, compared to $17.8 during the same period in 2014. During the first quarter of 2015, the Company's operating cash flows were reduced by $153.5 of cash payments in connection with the Acquisition. 

Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $739.0 compared to $818.7 for the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, was primarily attributable to $62.8 lower net earnings. The Company’s lower net earnings were driven by a 2% decline in its operating margins due to changes in payer and test mix as well as increased acquisition and consulting costs. The Company’s cash collections improved by $36.4 compared to the prior year, representing improvements in collections efforts on the delays and denials of payments the Company experienced in 2013 as a result of new molecular pathology codes and government payment reductions. However, this improvement was overshadowed by an $82.0 million increase in the use of cash from accounts payable disbursements. During 2014, the Company’s interest payments increased $20.6 compared to 2013, reflecting the timing of interest payments on the $700.0 in new senior notes issued in November 2013. This was partially offset by a $17.4 decrease in net taxes paid during the year compared to 2013. In addition, the net impact of changes in noncash adjustments, primarily related to deferred taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock compensation and gain/loss on sale of assets contributed to the $79.7 decrease in operating cash flows for 2014 as compared to the prior year. 

Cash Flows From Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $3,994.9 as compared to $350.1 for the year ended December 31, 2014. The $3,644.8 increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to net cash paid for the 

 53

Index

Acquisition of $3,607.4, ($4,388.2 cash paid, net of cash acquired of $780.8). Capital expenditures were $255.8 and $203.5 for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately 3.0% of revenue in 2016. The Company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions to fund growth and make important investments in its business, including in information technology, to improve efficiency and enable the execution of the Company's strategic vision. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility or any successor facility as needed.

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $350.1 as compared to $359.6 for the year ended December 31, 2013. The $9.5 decrease in cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, was primarily the result of the $31.6 proceeds received from the sale of one of the company’s equity investments offset by cash outflows of $20.2 for additional equity investments. 

Cash Flows From Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $3,184.6 compared to $200.6 net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014. The $3,385.2 increase in the cash provided by financing activities for 2015, as compared to the prior year, was primarily a result of $4,360.0 of financing proceeds for the Acquisition offset by repayments and debt issue costs of $781.7. The Company also repaid $500.0 of senior notes (including $250.0 of Covance Inc. senior notes) in 2015. The remainder of the period-over-period increase is primarily due to the suspension of share repurchases following the announcement of the Acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to $269.0 of share repurchases for 2014. 

As part of its financing of the Acquisition, the Company entered into a $1,000.0 term loan and $2,900.0 in debt securities consisting of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Senior Notes due 2020, $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.20% Senior Notes due 2022, $1,000.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.60% Senior Notes due 2025 and $900.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Senior Notes due 2045. The term loan credit facility will mature five years after the closing date of the Acquisition and may be prepaid without penalty. The term loan balance at December 31, 2015 was $715.0.

On December 19, 2014, the Company also entered into an amendment and restatement of its existing senior revolving credit facility, which was originally entered into on December 21, 2011. The senior revolving credit facility consists of a five-year revolving facility in the principal amount of up to $1,000.0, with the option of increasing the facility by up to an additional $250.0, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders to provide such additional amounts and certain other customary conditions. The new revolving credit facility also provides for a subfacility of up to $100.0 for swing line borrowings and a subfacility of up to $125.0 for issuances of letters of credit. The new revolving credit facility is permitted to be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, funding of share repurchases and certain other payments, and acquisitions and other investments. There was $0.0 outstanding on the Company's revolving credit facility at December 31, 2015 and 2014.

On February 13, 2015, the Company entered into a 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility in the principal amount of $400.0 for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the Acquisition. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was entered into under the terms set forth in the bridge facility commitment letter for the $400.0 60-day cash bridge tranche. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was advanced in full on February 19, 2015, the date of the Company’s completion of the Acquisition. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was repaid in March 2015. 

Under the term loan credit facility and the new revolving credit facility, the Company is subject to negative covenants limiting subsidiary indebtedness and certain other covenants typical for investment grade-rated borrowers and the Company is required to maintain a leverage ratio that varies. Prior to the Acquisition Date, the leverage ratio was required to have been no greater than 3.75 to 1.00, calculated by excluding the $2,900.0 Acquisition Notes. From and after the Acquisition Date, the leverage ratio must be no greater than 4.75 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each of the first four fiscal quarters ending on or after the closing date, 4.25 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each of the fifth through eighth fiscal quarters ending after the closing date, and 3.75 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each fiscal quarter ending thereafter. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the credit facilities at December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA was 3.6 to 1.0.

The term loan credit facility accrues interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s election, either a LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 2.00%, or a base rate determined according to a prime rate or federal funds rate plus a margin ranging from 0.125% to 1.00%. Advances under the new revolving credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s election, either a LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.60%, or a base rate determined according to a prime rate or federal funds rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.60%. Fees are payable on outstanding letters of credit under the new revolving credit facility at a per annum rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans, and the Company is required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the new revolving credit facility, at a per annum rate ranging 

 54

Index

from 0.125% to 0.40%. The interest margin applicable to the credit facilities, and the facility fee and letter of credit fees payable under the new revolving credit facility, are based on the Company’s senior credit ratings as determined by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, which are currently BBB and Baa2, respectively.

As of December 31, 2015, the effective interest rate on the revolving credit facility was 1.5% and the effective interest rate on the term loan was 1.7%.

Net cash used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $200.6 compared to $518.3 for the year ended December 31, 2013. The $317.7 decrease in the cash used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, was primarily a result of a $746.6 decrease in repurchases of common stock partially offset by a net increase of $328.5 in debt financing in 2013. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating $45.4, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are issued under the Company's revolving credit facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase up to $789.5 of Company common stock based on settled trades as of that date. Following the announcement of the Acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company suspended its share repurchases. The Company does not anticipate resuming its share repurchase activity until it approaches its targeted leverage ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA of 2.5 to 1.0. However, the Company will continue to evaluate all opportunities for strategic deployment of capital in light of market conditions. 

The Company had a $36.9 and $24.9 reserve for unrecognized income tax benefits, including interest and penalties as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The Acquisition accounted for substantially all of the increase. Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.

On September 11, 2015, the Company announced that for the period of September 12, 2015 to March 11, 2016, the zero-coupon subordinated notes will accrue contingent cash interest at a rate of no less than 0.125% of the average market price of a zero-coupon subordinated note for the five trading days ended September 9, 2015, in addition to the continued accrual of the original issue discount.

On January 4, 2016, the Company announced that its zero-coupon subordinated notes may be converted into cash and common stock at the conversion rate of 13.4108 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the notes, subject to the terms of the zero-coupon subordinated notes and the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee and conversion agent. In order to exercise the option to convert all or a portion of the zero-coupon subordinated notes, holders are required to validly surrender their zero-coupon subordinated notes at any time during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2016, through the close of business on the last business day of the calendar quarter, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Thursday, March 31, 2016. If notices of conversion are received, the Company plans to settle the cash portion of the conversion obligation with cash on hand and/or borrowings under the new revolving credit facility. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB from S&P’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 55

Index

(a)Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

(b)The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in “Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases and letters of credits.

Other Commercial Commitments

As of December 31, 2015, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $45.4, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the new Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year.

The contractual value of the noncontrolling interest put in the Company's Ontario subsidiary totaled $14.9 and $17.7 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, which have been classified as mezzanine equity in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In April 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on discontinued operations that significantly changed criteria for discontinued operations and disclosures for disposals. Under this new standard, to be a discontinued operation, a component or group of components must represent a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. Expanded disclosures for discontinued operations include more details about earnings and balance sheet accounts, total operating and investing cash flows, and cash flows resulting from continuing involvement. The Company has adopted the guidance of this new standard effective beginning in 2015 and will apply it prospectively to all new disposals of components and new classifications as held for sale. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2014, the FASB issued the converged standard on revenue recognition with the objective of providing a single, comprehensive model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using International Financial Reporting Standards and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The standard contains principles that an entity must apply to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The underlying principle is that an entity must recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. An entity can apply the revenue standard retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application in retained earnings. As originally issued, the new revenue recognition standard would be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2017. On July 9, 2015, the FASB approved the proposal to defer the effective date of this standard by one year. The standard will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted for annual periods beginning after December 16, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the expected impact of the standard. 

In August 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that explicitly requires management to assess an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related financial statement footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Under this standard, in connection with each annual and interim period, management must assess whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued when applicable). Management shall consider relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably knowable at such issuance date. Substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern exists if it is probable that the entity will 

 56

Index

be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after issuance date. Disclosures will be required if conditions or events give rise to substantial doubt. This standard is effective for the Company for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In April 2015, the FASB issued an update which requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the associated debt liability. This standard became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. The new guidance applies on a retrospective basis. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard allowing entities to exclude investments measured at net asset value per share under the existing practical expedient from the fair value hierarchy. In addition, when the net asset value practical expedient is not applied to eligible investments, certain other disclosures are no longer required. The standard became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In July 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that requires an entity to measure inventory, except inventory that is measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method, at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The standard became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In September 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that eliminates the requirement to restate prior period financial statements for measurement period adjustments. The standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment is identified. The standard became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016 and applies prospectively to measurement period adjustments that occur after the effective date. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In November 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that requires the deferred tax liabilities and assets to be classified as noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheet. The standard will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In January 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. A financial instrument is defined as cash, evidence of ownership interest in a company or other entity, or a contract that both: (i) imposes on one entity a contractual obligation either to deliver cash or another financial instrument to a second entity or to exchange other financial instruments on potentially unfavorable terms with the second entity and (ii) conveys to that second entity a contractual right either to receive cash or another financial instruments from the first entity or to exchange other financial instruments on potentially favorable terms with the first entity. The standard will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact that this new guidance will have on the consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:

•Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts;

•Pension expense;

•Accruals for self insurance reserves;

•Income taxes; and

•Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets.

 57

Index

Revenue Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

LCD recognizes revenue for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as MCOs, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients, or fees made available through charity care or an uninsured patient program. LCD bills third-party payers in two ways: fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with MCOs, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed.

CDD recognizes revenue either as services are performed or products are delivered, depending on the nature of the work contracted. Historically, a majority of CDD’s net revenues have been earned under contracts that range in duration from a few months to a few years, but can extend in duration up to five years or longer. CDD also has committed minimum volume arrangements with certain clients. Underlying these arrangements are individual project contracts for the specific services to be provided. These arrangements enable CDD's clients to secure its services in exchange for which they commit to purchase an annual minimum dollar value of services. Under these types of arrangements, if the annual minimum dollar value of service commitment is not reached, the client is required to pay CDD for the shortfall. Progress towards the achievement of annual minimum dollar value of service commitments is monitored throughout the year. Annual minimum commitment shortfalls are not included in net revenues until the amount has been determined and agreed to by the client.

Service contracts generally take the form of fee-for-service or fixed-price arrangements subject to pricing adjustments based on changes in scope. In cases where performance spans multiple accounting periods, revenue is recognized as services are performed, measured on a proportional-performance basis, generally using output measures that are specific to the service provided. Examples of output measures in early development services, include among others, the number of slides read, or specimens prepared for preclinical laboratory services, or number of dosings or number of volunteers enrolled for clinical pharmacology. Examples of output measures in the clinical trials services, include among others, number of investigators enrolled, number of sites initiated, number of patients enrolled and number of monitoring visits completed. Revenue is determined by dividing the actual units of work completed by the total units of work required under the contract and multiplying that percentage by the total contract value. The total contract value, or total contractual payments, represents the aggregate contracted price for each of the agreed upon services to be provided. CDD does not have any contractual arrangements spanning multiple accounting periods where revenue is recognized on a proportional-performance basis under which the Company has earned more than an immaterial amount of performance-based revenue (i.e., potential additional revenue tied to specific deliverables or performance). Changes in the scope of work are common, especially under long-term contracts, and generally result in a change in contract value. Once the client has agreed to the changes in scope and renegotiated pricing terms, the contract value is amended with revenue recognized as described above. Estimates of costs to complete are made to provide, where appropriate, for losses expected on contracts. Costs are not deferred in anticipation of contracts being awarded, but instead are expensed as incurred.

Billing schedules and payment terms are generally negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. In some cases, CDD bills the client for the total contract value in progress-based installments as certain non-contingent billing milestones are reached over the contract duration, such as, but not limited to, contract signing, initial dosing, investigator site initiation, patient enrollment or database lock. The term “billing milestone” relates only to a billing trigger in a contract whereby amounts become billable and payable in accordance with a negotiated predetermined billing schedule throughout the term of a project. These billing milestones are generally not performance-based (i.e., there is no potential additional consideration tied to specific deliverables or performance). In other cases, billing and payment terms are tied to the passage of time (e.g., monthly billings). In either case, the total contract value and aggregate amounts billed to the client would be the same at the end of the project. While CDD attempts to negotiate terms that provide for billing and payment of services prior or within close proximity to the provision of services, this is not always possible, and there are fluctuations in the levels of unbilled services and unearned revenue from period to period. While a project is ongoing, cash payments are not necessarily representative of aggregate revenue earned at any particular point in time, as revenues are recognized when services are provided, while amounts billed and paid are in accordance with the negotiated billing and payment terms.

 58

Index

In some cases, payments received are in excess of revenue recognized. For example, a contract invoicing schedule may provide for an upfront payment of 10% of the full contract value upon contract signing, but at the time of signing performance of services has not yet begun. Payments received in advance of services being provided are deferred as unearned revenue on the balance sheet. As the contracted services are subsequently performed and the associated revenue is recognized, the unearned revenue balance is reduced by the amount of revenue recognized during the period.

In other cases, services may be provided and revenue recognized before the client is invoiced. In these cases, revenue recognized will exceed amounts billed, and the difference, representing an unbilled receivable, is recorded for the amount that is currently unbillable to the customer pursuant to contractual terms. Once the client is invoiced, the unbilled services are reduced for the amount billed, and a corresponding account receivable is recorded. All unbilled services are billable to customers within one year from the respective balance sheet date.

Most contracts are terminable with or without cause by the client, either immediately or upon notice. These contracts often require payment to CDD of expenses to wind down the study or project, fees earned to date and, in some cases, a termination fee or a payment to CDD of some portion of the fees or profits that could have been earned by CDD under the contract if it had not been terminated early. Termination fees are included in net revenues when services are performed and realization is assured. In connection with the management of multi-site clinical trials, CDD pays on behalf of its customers fees to investigators, volunteers and certain out-of-pocket costs, for which it is reimbursed at cost, without mark-up or profit. Investigator fees are not reflected in net revenues or expenses where CDD acts in the capacity of an agent on behalf of the pharmaceutical company sponsor, passing through these costs without risk or reward to CDD. All other out-of-pocket costs are included in total revenues and expenses.

LCD has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. LCD’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on LCD’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within LCD’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience.

The following table presents the percentage of LCD’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table excludes the percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category for certain foreign operations, BeaconLBS, and the nutritional chemistry and food safety business. Combined these net accounts receivable balances comprise less than 6.7% of LCD's total net accounts receivable balances. The Company believes that including the agings of the accounts receivables for these would not be representative of the majority of accounts receivable by aging category for LCD. The majority of the accounts receivables for the foreign operations, BeaconLBS, and the nutritional chemistry and food safety business are generally paid within 30 to 60 days of billing.

CDD endeavors to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit terms in the ordinary course of business. CDD maintains a provision for doubtful accounts relating to amounts due that may not be collected. This bad debt provision is monitored on a monthly basis and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Since the recorded bad debt provision is based upon management's judgment, actual bad debt write-offs may be greater or less than the amount recorded. Historically, bad debt write-offs have not been material. The allowance for doubtful accounts amounted to $3.4 at December 31, 2015. 

 59

Index

Pension Expense

The Company has a defined benefit retirement plan (Company Plan) and a non-qualified supplemental retirement plan (PEP). In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (401K Plan) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (NEC) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of up to 1% and up to 3% of pay for eligible employees, based on service.

The Company Plan covers substantially all employees hired prior to December 31, 2009. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service through December 31, 2009, interest credits and average compensation. The Company's policy is to fund the Company Plan with at least the minimum amount required by applicable regulations. The PEP covers the Company's senior management group. Prior to 2010, the PEP provided for the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum limitation on annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable under the Company Plan but for such limitation. Effective January 1, 2010, employees participating in the PEP no longer earn service-based credits. The PEP is an unfunded plan. 

In addition, as a result of the Acquisition, the Company also has a frozen non-qualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP). The SERP, which is not funded, is intended to provide retirement benefits for certain employees who were executive officers of Covance prior to the Acquisition. Benefit amounts are based upon years of service and compensation of the participating employees. The Company also sponsors two defined benefit pension plans for the benefit of its employees at two U.K. subsidiaries (U.K. Plans) and one defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of its employees at a German subsidiary (German Plan), all of which are legacy plans of previously acquired companies. Benefit amounts for all three plans are based upon years of service and compensation. The German Plan is unfunded while the U.K. Plans are funded. The Company’s funding policy for the U.K. Plans has been to contribute annually amounts at least equal to the local statutory funding requirements.

The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 4.0% discount rate and a 7.0% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the Company Plan and the PEP, a 3.8% discount rate for the SERP, a 2.5% discount rate and a 2.0% expected salary increase for the German plan, a 3.8% discount rate and a 3.6% expected salary increase for the U.K. Plans as of December 31, 2015.

Discount Rate

The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Towers Watson Bond:Link model, which simulates the purchase of investment-grade corporate bonds at current market yields with principal amounts and maturity dates closely matching the Company's projected cash disbursements from its plans. This completed model represents the yields to maturity that the Company could theoretically settle its plan obligations at year end. The weighted-average yield on the modeled bond portfolio is then used to form the discount rate assumption used for each retirement plan. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2015 retirement plan expense of $1.8 for the Company Plan and PEP. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2015 retirement plan expense of $1.0 for the U.K. Plans.

Return on Plan Assets

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2015 pension expense of $2.6 for the Company Plan and the SERP. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2015 pension expense of $2.0 for the U.K. Plans.

Net pension cost for 2015 was $12.0 as compared with $8.1 in 2014 and $11.0 in 2013. The increase in pension expense was due to increases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of lower discount rates. The decrease in pension expense 

 60

Index

in 2014 was due to decreases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of higher discount rates. Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to increase to $12.9 in 2016 as a result of a lower assumed discount rate and changes in participant mortality tables. Projected pension expense for the SERP is expected to increase to $0.4 in 2016 as a result of a one-time curtailment gain in 2015 offset by an increase in the assumed discount rate. Projected pension expense for the Germany Plan and the United Kingdom Plans is expected to increase to $2.4 in 2016 as a result of a lower assumed discount rate and changes in participant mortality tables. 

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for Self-Insurance Reserves

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted.

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company’s maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on actuarial assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims, including the frequency and payment trends of historical claims.

If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Historical trends have not differed materially from these estimates.

 Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets

The Company assesses goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Following the Acquisition, the Company changed the timing of its annual impairment testing to the beginning of the fourth quarter. In accordance with the FASB updates to their authoritative guidance regarding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing, an entity is allowed to first assess qualitative factors as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform quantitative impairment testing. If an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the estimated fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, then no further testing is required. Otherwise, impairment testing must be performed in accordance with the original accounting standards. The updated FASB guidance also allows an entity to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in its goodwill assessment and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step assessment. Similarly, a company can proceed directly to a quantitative assessment in the case of impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets as well. 

Step One of the goodwill impairment test includes the estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit as compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit. Reporting units are businesses with discrete financial information that is available and reviewed by management. The Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using both income-based and market-based valuation methods. The income-based approach is based on the reporting unit's forecasted future cash flows that are discounted to the present value using the reporting unit's weighted average cost of capital. For the market-based approach, the Company utilizes a number of factors such as publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of the Company as well as operating results, business plans, market multiples, and present value techniques. Based upon the range of estimated values developed from the income and market-based methods, the Company determines the estimated fair value for the reporting unit. If the estimated fair 

 61

Index

value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, the goodwill is not impaired and no further review is required. However, if the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value, the Company performs the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of the impairment, if any. The second step involves a hypothetical allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its tangible and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) and liabilities as if the reporting unit were newly acquired, which results in an implied fair value of the goodwill. The amount of the impairment charge is the excess of the recorded goodwill, if any, over the implied fair value of the goodwill. 

The income-based fair value methodology requires management's assumptions and judgments regarding economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates and conditions in the capital markets, many of which are outside of management's control. At the reporting unit level, fair value estimation requires management's assumptions and judgments regarding the effects of overall economic conditions on the specific reporting unit, along with assessment of the reporting unit's strategies and forecasts of future cash flows. Forecasts of individual reporting unit cash flows involve management's estimates and assumptions regarding:

•Annual cash flows, on a debt-free basis, arising from future revenues and profitability, changes in working capital, capital spending and income taxes for at least a five-year forecast period.

•A terminal growth rate for years beyond the forecast period. The terminal growth rate is selected based on consideration of growth rates used in the forecast period, historical performance of the reporting unit and economic conditions.

•A discount rate that reflects the risks inherent in realizing the forecasted cash flows. A discount rate considers the risk-free rate of return on long-term treasury securities, the risk premium associated with investing in equity securities of comparable companies, the beta obtained from the comparable companies and the cost of debt for investment grade issuers. In addition, the discount rate may consider any company-specific risk in achieving the prospective financial information. 

Under the market-based fair value methodology, judgment is required in evaluating market multiples and recent transactions. Management believes that the assumptions used for its impairment tests are representative of those that would be used by market participants performing similar valuations of the reporting units. 

Management concluded that no triggering events occurred during 2015 related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. As such, management performed its annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2015. The Company elected to perform the qualitative assessment for goodwill and intangible assets, with the exception of the indefinite-lived Canadian licenses, for all reporting units. 

In this qualitative assessment, the Company considered relevant events and circumstances for each reporting unit, including (i) current year results, ii) financial performance versus management’s annual and five-year strategic plans, iii) changes in the reporting unit carrying value since prior year, (iv) industry and market conditions in which the reporting unit operates, (v) macroeconomic conditions, including discount rate changes, and (vi) changes in products or services offered by the reporting unit. If applicable, performance in recent years was compared to forecasts included in prior valuations. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment, the Company concluded that it was not more likely than not that the carrying values of the goodwill and intangible assets were greater than their fair values, and that further quantitative testing was not necessary.

It is possible that the Company's conclusions regarding impairment or recoverability of goodwill or intangible assets in any reporting unit could change in future periods. There can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions used in the Company's goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing performed as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2015 will prove to be accurate predictions of the future, if, for example, (i) the businesses do not perform as projected, (ii) overall economic conditions in 2016 or future years vary from current assumptions (including changes in discount rates), (iii) business conditions or strategies for a specific reporting unit change from current assumptions, including loss of major customers, (iv) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (v) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower multiples of revenues and EBITDA. A future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial position and results of operations.

In 2015, the Company utilized an income approach to determine the fair value of its Canadian reporting unit and its indefinite-lived assets consisting of acquired Canadian licenses. Based upon the results of the quantitative assessment, the Company concluded that the fair value of the indefinite-lived Canadian licenses was greater than the carrying value.

 62

Index

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Company has made in this report forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein, including in Item 1A Risk Factors, and in the Company’s other public filings:

1. changes in U.S., state, local and third party payer regulations or policies or other future reforms in the healthcare system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state, regional or private insurance cooperatives (e.g., Health Insurance Exchanges), affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

2. significant monetary damages, fines, penalties, assessments, refunds, repayments, and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, among other adverse consequences, resulting from interpretations of, or future changes in, laws and regulations, including laws and regulations of Medicare, Medicaid, the U.S. False Claims Act, interpretations of such laws and regulations by U.S. or state government agencies or investigations, audits, regulatory examinations, information requests and other inquiries by state or U.S. government agencies; 

3. significant fines, penalties, costs and/or damage to the Company’s reputation arising from the failure to comply with U.S. and international privacy and security laws and regulations, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, U.S. state laws and regulations, and laws and regulations of the European Union and other countries;

4.loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988;

5. penalties or loss of license arising from the failure to comply with the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the U.S. Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, or similar laws and regulations of U.S., state, local or international agencies;

6.fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of manufacturing, enforcement actions, injunctions, or criminal prosecution arising from failure to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations and other applicable requirements of various regulatory agencies;

7.sanctions or other remedies, including fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution arising from failure to comply with the Animal Welfare Act;

8.changes in testing guidelines or recommendations by government agencies, medical specialty societies and other authoritative bodies affecting the utilization of laboratory tests;

9.changes in government regulations or policies, including regulations and policies of the FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture or other U.S., state, local or international agencies, affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests or drugs or the conduct of drug development trials;

10.changes in government regulations pertaining to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, changes in reimbursement of pharmaceutical products or reduced spending on R&D by pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers;

11.liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;

12. increased competition, including price competition, competitive bidding and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules and competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

13. changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans and adverse changes in payer reimbursement or payer coverage policies related to specific testing procedures or categories of testing;

14. failure to retain or attract MCO business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by MCOs;

 63

Index

15. failure to obtain and retain new customers or a reduction in tests ordered, specimens submitted or services requested by existing customers;

16. difficulty in maintaining relationships with customers or retaining key employees as a result of uncertainty surrounding the integration of acquisitions and the resulting negative effects on the business of the Company;

17.consolidation of MCOs, pharmaceutical companies, health systems, physicians and other customers affecting pricing and sales;

18.failure to effectively develop and deploy system modifications or enhancements required in response to evolving market and business needs;

19.customers choosing to insource services that are or could be purchased from the Company;

20. failure to identify, successfully close and effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses;

21.inability to achieve the expected benefits and synergies of newly-acquired businesses, and impact on the Company's cash position, levels of indebtedness and stock price; 

22.inability of the Company to meet expectations regarding accounting and tax treatments related to the Acquisition;

23.termination, loss, delay, reduction in scope or increased costs of contracts, including large contracts and multiple contracts;

24.liability arising from errors or omissions in the performance of contract research services or other contractual arrangements;

25.changes or disruption in services or supplies provided by third parties, including transportation;

26. damage or disruption to the Company's facilities;

27. damage to the Company's reputation, loss of business, harm from acts of animal rights extremists or potential liability arising from animal research activities; 

28.adverse results in litigation matters;

29. inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;

30.failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, such as point-of-care testing and mobile health technologies, or potential use of new technologies by customers to perform their own tests;

31. substantial costs arising from the inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests;

32.inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company's products and services and successfully enforce the Company's proprietary rights;

33.scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties that may impact the Company's ability to develop, perform, or market the Company's products or services or operate its business;

34.business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters, terrorism or other criminal acts, and/or widespread outbreak of influenza or other pandemic illness;

35.discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;

36.a failure in the Company's information technology systems, including with respect to testing turnaround time and billing processes, or the failure to maintain the security of business information or systems or to protect against cyber security attacks, or delays or failures in the development and implementation of the Company’s LabCorp Beacon platform, any of which could result in a negative effect on the Company’s performance of services, a loss of business or increased costs, damages to the Company’s reputation, significant litigation exposure, an inability to meet required financial reporting deadlines, or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements;

37.business interruption, increased costs, and other adverse effects on the Company's operations due to the unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages, general labor unrest or failure to comply with labor or employment laws;

38. failure to maintain the Company's days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels including negative impact on the Company's reimbursement, cash collections and profitability arising from the failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set, which was effective October 1, 2015, or arising from unfavorable changes in third party payer policies in connection with the implementation of the ICD-10-CM Code Set; 

 64

Index

39.impact on the Company's revenue, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs arising from a significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets or in the Company's credit ratings by S&P's and/or Moody's; 

40.changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations;

41. inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to the Company by physicians, resulting in increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenues; 

42. expenses and risks associated with international operations, including but not limited to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and laws and regulations that differ from those of the U.S., and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign markets; and

43.failure to achieve expected efficiencies and savings in connection with Project LaunchPad, LCD's comprehensive, enterprise-wide business process improvement initiative.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK