Item 1A. Risk Factors

Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or that the Company presently deems immaterial, may also negatively impact the Company. The Company’s business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

This report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. The Company’s results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere. See “Forward Looking Statements” in Item 7. 

Changes in payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations or policies), insurance regulation or approvals or changes in other laws, regulations or policies may adversely affect governmental and third-party coverage and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing and may have a material adverse effect upon the Company.

Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as insurers, including MCOs, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes in Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation. Further reductions of reimbursement for Medicare and Medicaid services or changes in policy regarding coverage of tests or other requirements for payment, such as prior authorization or a physician or qualified practitioner’s signature on test requisitions, may be implemented from time to time. Reimbursement for pathology services performed by LCD is also subject to statutory and regulatory reduction. Reductions in the reimbursement rates and changes in payment policies of other third-party payers may occur as well. Such changes in the past have resulted in reduced payments as well as added costs and have decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by adding more complex new regulatory and administrative requirements. Further changes in third-party payer regulations or policies may have a material adverse impact on LCD's business. Actions by agencies regulating insurance or changes in other laws, regulations, or policies may also have a material adverse effect upon LCD's business.

The Company could face significant monetary damages and penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs if it violates healthcare anti-fraud and abuse laws. 

The Company is subject to extensive government regulation at the national, state and local levels. The Company’s failure to meet governmental requirements under these regulations, including those relating to billing practices and financial relationships with physicians and hospitals, could lead to civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and possible prohibitions or restrictions on the use of its laboratories. While the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements, there is a risk that government authorities might take a contrary position. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect important business relationships it has with third parties.

The Company’s business could be harmed from the loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other national, state or local agencies. 

The clinical laboratory testing industry is subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. CLIA extends federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories operating in the U.S. by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation under state law. State laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. 

Applicable statutes and regulations could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely affect the Company's business. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly.

 26

Index

FDA regulation of diagnostic products and increased FDA regulation of LDTs could result in increased costs and the imposition of fines or penalties and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The FDA has regulatory responsibility for instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories. The FDA enforces laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, performance, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and surveillance of diagnostic products and regularly inspects and reviews the manufacturing processes and product performance of diagnostic products. LCD’s point-of-collection testing devices are subject to regulation by the FDA.

There are other regulatory and legislative proposals that would increase general FDA oversight of clinical laboratories and LDTs. On July 26, 2007, the FDA issued Draft Guidance for Industry, Clinical Laboratories, and FDA Staff: In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays. The guidance proposed certain changes to the agency's general past practice regarding the regulation of certain LDTs and announced that most devices deemed to be In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays (IVDMIAs) would either be Class II or Class III devices, although it is possible that an IVDMIA for a low-risk indication could be class I. Class II medical devices typically require FDA clearance or a premarket notification submission. Class III devices require the submission of an application for Premarket Approval (PMA). On October 3, 2014, the FDA published two additional draft guidance documents: Framework for Regulatory Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs) which provides an overview of how FDA would regulate LDTs through a risk-based approach and FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory Developed Tests which describes the process for clinical laboratories to notify the FDA of the LDTs they "manufacture" and describes the Medical Device Reporting (MDR) requirements for LDTs. On May 28, 2015, and October 22, 2015, the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee released discussion drafts of a bill that would reform oversight of in vitro clinical tests (IVCTs), including both LDTs and test kits, under a new regulatory framework in which FDA would regulate IVCTs under a new category separate from medical devices, and regulation of laboratories by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) would be modernized. On November 16, 2015, the FDA issued a report titled, The Public Health Evidence for FDA Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests: 20 Case Studies (LDT Report). The LDT Report compiles 20 case studies involving LDTs where FDA alleges that non-compliance with FDA regulations led to serious issues, such as false positive or false-negative results, causing potential or actual harm to patients. On December 29, 2015, FDA published notice of its intent to finalize guidance on its policy for regulatory oversight of LDTs in 2016. The outcome and ultimate impact of such proposals on the business is difficult to predict at this time. 

Current FDA regulation of the Company’s diagnostic products and potential future increased regulation of the Company’s LDTs could result in increased costs and administrative and legal actions for noncompliance, including warning letters, fines, penalties, product suspensions, product recalls, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.

Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

As previously discussed Item 1 of Part I of this report, the Company is subject to licensing and regulation under laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company that may be costly.

Regulations requiring the use of standard transactions for healthcare services issued under HIPAA may negatively impact the Company’s profitability and cash flows. 

Pursuant to HIPAA, the Secretary of HHS has issued regulations designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged.

The HIPAA transaction standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation by payers. For instance, some payers may interpret the standards to require the Company to provide certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to the Company by physicians. In addition, new requirements for additional standard transactions, such as claims attachments, and the ICD-10-CM Code Set, could prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement.  As a result of inconsistent application of other transaction standards by payers or the Company’s inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to the Company by physicians, the Company could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenues. The Company is working closely 

 27

Index

with its payers to establish acceptable protocols for claim submission and with its trade association and an industry coalition to present issues and problems as they arise to the appropriate regulators and standards setting organizations.

Failure to maintain the security of customer-related information or compliance with security requirements could damage the Company’s reputation with customers, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation.

The Company receives certain personal and financial information about its customers. In addition, the Company depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise in the Company’s security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons or the Company’s failure to comply with security requirements for financial transactions could adversely affect the Company’s reputation with its customers and others, as well as the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. It could also result in litigation against the Company and the imposition of fines and penalties.

Failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set could negatively impact the Company's reimbursement, profitability and cash flow.

The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the current Transactions and Code Sets Rule. The Company implemented Version 5010 of the HIPAA Transaction Standards and believes it has fully adopted the ICD-10-CM Code Set. Clinical laboratories are typically required to submit healthcare claims with diagnosis codes to third party payers. The diagnosis codes must be obtained from the ordering physician. The failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to apply the new code set could have an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales outstanding and cash collections.

Failure to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties and damage to the Company’s reputation with customers and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive standards with respect to the use and disclosure of PHI by covered entities, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:

•the circumstances under which the use and disclosure of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for the Company’s services, and its healthcare operations activities;

•a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI;

•the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI;

•administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI; and

•the protection of computing systems maintaining electronic PHI.

The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to comply with the HIPAA privacy and security requirements as applicable. The privacy and security regulations establish a “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, the Company is required to comply with both additional federal privacy and security regulations and varying state privacy and security laws. In addition, for data transfers from and operations in other countries, the Company may also be required to comply with the data privacy and security laws of those other countries. HIPAA restricts the Company’s ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI in violation of the privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. 

If the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to protecting the privacy and security of personal or health information it could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. In addition, foreign, federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For example, the Company could incur damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of health information or other personal information and in Europe both criminal and administrative sanctions are possible for violation of national implementations of the general data protection Directive 95/46/EC. In December 2015, the EU enacted a General Data Protection Regulation to replace Directive 95/46/EC, which is expected to take effect at some point in 2018, and which has enhanced penalties for noncompliance. The Company is evaluating its ability and the cost to comply with the new EU regulations, and as a result of that evaluation expects to make change to its business practices and incur additional costs.

 28

Index

Discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products; failure to develop, or acquire, licenses for new or improved testing technologies; or the Company’s customers using new technologies to perform their own tests could adversely affect the Company’s business. 

From time to time, manufacturers discontinue or recall reagents, test kits or instruments used by the Company to perform laboratory testing. Such discontinuations or recalls could adversely affect the Company’s costs, testing volume and revenue.

The clinical laboratory industry is subject to changing technology and new product introductions. The Company’s success in maintaining a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend, in part, on its ability to develop, acquire or license new and improved technologies on favorable terms and to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for these technologies. The Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements and it cannot be certain that such arrangements will yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. If the Company is unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, its R&D costs may increase as a result. In addition, if the Company is unable to license new or improved technologies to expand its esoteric testing operations, its testing methods may become outdated when compared with the Company’s competition and testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected.

In addition, advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective technologies such as point-of-care testing equipment that can be operated by physicians or other healthcare providers in their offices or by patients themselves without requiring the services of freestanding clinical laboratories. Development of such technology and its use by the Company’s customers could reduce the demand for its laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues.

Currently, most clinical laboratory testing is categorized as “high” or “moderate” complexity, and thereby is subject to extensive and costly regulation under CLIA. The cost of compliance with CLIA makes it impractical for most physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, and other laws limit the ability of physicians to have ownership in a laboratory and to refer tests to such a laboratory. Manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling test kits approved for home or physician office use to both physicians and patients. Diagnostic tests approved for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories as well as by patients in their homes with minimal regulatory oversight. Other tests meeting certain FDA criteria also may be classified as “waived” for CLIA purposes. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and has taken responsibility from the Centers for Disease Control for classifying the complexity of tests for CLIA purposes. Increased approval of “waived” test kits could lead to increased testing by physicians in their offices or by patients at home, which could affect the Company’s market for laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues. 

Healthcare reform and related products (e.g., Health Insurance Exchanges), changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's net revenues, profitability and cash flow.

LCD's testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, MCOs and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person who ordered the test. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and MCOs could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues. 

The various MCOs have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of the products they offer to their members. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of the rates reimbursed to participating laboratories. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with a largely uniform fee structure for participating clinical laboratories; in some cases, those fee structures are specific to independent clinical laboratories while the fees paid to hospital-based and physician-office laboratories may be different, and are typically higher. In addition, some MCOs have used capitation in an effort to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement arrangement, the MCO makes a per member, per month payment for all covered laboratory tests rendered during the month for the members, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Capitation shifts the risk of increased test utilization (and the underlying mix of testing services) to the clinical laboratory provider. The Company makes significant efforts to ensure that its services are adequately compensated in its capitated arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2015, such capitated contracts accounted for approximately $219.9 million, or 2.6%, of the Company's net revenues.

The Company's ability to attract and retain MCOs is critical given the impact of healthcare reform, related products and expanded coverage (e.g., Health Insurance Exchanges and Medicaid Expansion) and evolving delivery models (e.g., ACOs).

 29

Index

A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. Collectibility may be impacted as patient cost-sharing increases.

In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical laboratory services. Measures to regulate healthcare delivery in general, and clinical laboratories in particular, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. Pursuant to legislation passed in late 2003, the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Managed Medicare plans has increased. The percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Managed Medicaid plans has also increased, and is expected to continue to increase. Implementation of the ACA, the healthcare reform legislation passed in 2010, also may continue to affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services, as well as administrative requirements.

The Company also experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of new molecular pathology codes among various payers, including Medicaid, Medicare and commercial carriers. While some delays were expected, several non-commercial payers required an extended period of time to price key molecular codes and a number of those payers, mostly government entities, indicated that they would no longer pay for tests that they had previously covered. Further, several payers continue to require additional information to process claims or have implemented prior authorization policies. Many commercial payers were delayed in becoming aware of the impact of their claim edits and policies, which impeded access to services that previously had been covered and reimbursed. These delays had a negative impact on 2014 revenue, revenue per requisition, margins and cash flows, which were largely sustained throughout 2015, and are expected to have a continuing negative impact. Similarly, CLFS coding and billing changes related to toxicology and other procedures were implemented in 2016 and Palmetto implemented a Drugs of Abuse Local Coverage Policy which impacted the handling of such procedures for Medicaid and MCOs. The Company experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of the new toxicology codes, however, largely overcame issues related to price and margins through direct negotiation with the associated payers. Further coding and billing changes related to toxicology and other procedure types are to be implemented in 2016. The Company expects delays in the pricing and implementation of these new codes and it is unclear what impact will be experienced related to price and margins. 

The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement, more stringent payment policies and utilization and cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If LCD cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flows. In 2014, Congress passed the PAMA, requiring Medicare to change the way payment rates are calculated for tests paid under the CLFS, and to base the payment on the weighted median of rates paid by private payers. On October 1, 2015, CMS published a proposed rule to implement PAMA. This rule proposes to require applicable laboratories, including LCD, to begin reporting their test-specific private payer payment amounts to CMS during the first quarter of 2016, which CMS would then use to calculate new CLFS rates that would be effective in 2017. The American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA) and the lab community provided extensive comments on the proposed rule and will continue to work with CMS to arrive at final regulation that accurately reflects the statutory language on applicable laboratories, and results in a reimbursement framework that reflects the broad scope of the laboratory market, encourages innovation, and maintains access to laboratory services for Medicare beneficiaries. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the proposed rule.

As an employer, healthcare reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing healthcare coverage to employees and their families. Given the limited release of regulations to guide compliance, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain.

In addition, implementation of healthcare reform legislation that adds costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to CDD both in the U.S. and other countries. New laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase CDD costs or limit service offerings through CDD.

Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical industry could decrease the need for certain services that CDD provides.

CDD assists pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in navigating the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulations such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that CDD has difficulty satisfying or that make its services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for its services. Also, if government efforts to contain drug costs impact pharmaceutical and biotechnology company profits from new drugs, some of CDD’s customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on R&D. If health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, some of 

 30

Index

CDD’s customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on R&D.

Failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. FDA and other drug regulatory agencies, such as the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., the European Medicines Agency, the China Food and Drug Administration, and the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan could result in sanctions and/or remedies against CDD and have a material adverse effect upon the Company. 

The operation of CDD's preclinical laboratory facilities and clinical trial operations must conform at all times to GLP and GCP as well as all other applicable standards and regulations, respectively, as further described in "Business" in Item 1 of this report.

Additionally, certain CDD services and activities must conform to cGMP as further described in "Business" in Item 1 of this report. Failure to maintain compliance with GLP, GCP, or cGMP regulations and other applicable requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in warning letters, fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of manufacturing, civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against CDD, including suspension of its laboratory operations, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.

Increased competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability.

Both LCD and CDD operate in highly competitive industries. The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service. Pricing of laboratory testing services is often one of the most significant factors used by healthcare providers and third-party payers in selecting a laboratory. As a result of significant consolidation in the clinical laboratory industry, larger clinical laboratory providers are able to increase cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing. This consolidation results in greater price competition. LCD may be unable to increase cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, its net earnings and cash flows could be negatively impacted by such price competition. The Company may also face increased competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry. Additionally, the Company may also face changes in fee schedules, competitive bidding for laboratory services or other actions or pressures reducing payment schedules as a result of increased or additional competition.

Competitors in the CRO industry range from small providers to full service global CROs. CDD’s main competition consists of in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, full-service and functional CROs, and, to a lesser degree, universities and teaching hospitals. CDD competes on a variety of factors, including:

•reputation for on-time quality performance and regulatory compliance;

•expertise and experience in specific areas;

•scope of service offerings;

•strengths in various geographic markets;

•price;

•technological expertise and efficiency of drug development processes;

•quality of facilities;

•ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a rapid and accurate manner;

•quality of relationships;

•ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally;

•expertise and experience in market access services; and

•size and scale. 

CDD’s services have from time to time experienced periods of increased price competition which had an adverse effect on a segment's profitability and consolidated net revenues and net income.

There is competition among CROs for both clients and potential acquisition candidates. Additionally, entities considering entering the CRO industry will find few barriers to entry, thus further increasing possible competition. These competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of CDD’s services and could adversely affect its financial results and the financial results of the Company.

A failure to obtain and retain new customers, a loss of existing customers or material contracts, a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, or the inability to retain existing and create new relationships with health systems could impact the Company’s ability to successfully grow its business. 

To offset efforts by payers to reduce the cost and utilization of clinical laboratory services and to otherwise maintain and grow its business, the Company needs to obtain and retain new customers and business partners. In addition, a reduction in tests ordered 

 31

Index

or specimens submitted by existing customers, a decrease in demand for the CDD's services from existing clients, or the loss of existing contracts, without offsetting growth in its customer base, could impact the Company's ability to successfully grow its business and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality of services, reporting and information systems, reputation in the medical community and the drug development industry, the pricing of services and ability to employ qualified personnel. The Company's failure to successfully compete on any of these factors could result in the loss of customers and a reduction in the Company's ability to expand its customer base.

In addition, as the broader healthcare industry trend of consolidation continues, including the acquisition of physician practices by health systems, relationships with hospital-based health systems and integrated delivery networks are becoming more important. LCD has a well-established base of relationships with those systems and networks, including collaborative agreements. LCD's inability to retain its existing relationships with those provider systems and networks and to create new relationships could impact its ability to successfully grow its business.

Continued and increased consolidation of managed care organizations, pharmaceutical companies, health systems, physicians and other customers could adversely affect the Company's business.

Many healthcare companies and providers, including MCOs, pharmaceutical companies, health systems and physician practices are consolidating through mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and other types of transactions and collaborations. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services may become more intense. This competition and increased customer bargaining power may adversely affect the price and volume of the Company’s services.

LCD’s nutritional chemistry and food safety business exposes the Company to various risks, including liability for errors and omissions in work conducted for LCD clients. 

LCD offers a range of product-development and product-integrity services to food and beverage manufacturers and retailers, industry organizations and academic institutions. LCD expects to expand its nutritional chemistry and food safety business by leveraging the Company’s expertise in microbiology and its infrastructure to enable testing to be performed close to the food source. LCD also is exploring the possibility of developing point of care testing for food safety. These business offerings and opportunities expose the Company to many of the same, or similar, risks that are applicable to other business activities of the Company, including with respect to the operations of its facilities and the application of applicable laws and regulations. The agricultural, food, beverage and dietary supplement industries are continuing to gain attention of governments and regulators around the world, and regulations and applicable laws have increased in recent years. For example, the Company’s customers will be subject to new nutrition labeling regulations and new food manufacturing requirements, including regulations issued under the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA). With these enhanced requirements on the Company’s clients, there is an increased risk that errors in or omissions from nutritional analysis and food safety tests conducted by the Company for its clients could result in liability for the Company under client contracts. If LCD determines to further expand its nutritional chemistry and food safety testing business in the future beyond what is currently anticipated, LCD could become subject to additional standards and regulations, including under the FSMA, and could face additional liabilities resulting from new and pending regulatory and other legal decisions.  

Changes or disruption in services or supplies provided by third parties, including transportation, could adversely affect the Company’s business.

The Company depends on third parties to provide services critical to the Company’s business. The Company's laboratories and certain of the Company's other businesses are heavily reliant on air travel for transport of clinical trial and diagnostic testing supplies and specimens, research products, and people, and a significant disruption to the air travel system, or the Company's access to it, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. CDD depends on a limited number of suppliers for certain services and for certain animal populations. Disruptions to the continued supply of these services, products or animal populations may arise from export/import restrictions or embargoes, political or economic instability, adverse weather, natural disaster or other causes. Disruption of supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 

Damage or disruption to the Company’s facilities could adversely affect the Company’s business.

Many of the Company’s facilities would be difficult to replace in a short period of time. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of these facilities might impact the Company's ability to provide service to customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 32

Index

The Company bears financial risk for contracts that are underpriced, for which there are cost overruns or that may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond the Company’s control.

The Company has many contracts that are structured as fixed-price for fixed-contracted services or fee-for-service with a cap. The Company bears the financial risk if these contracts are underpriced or if contract costs exceed estimates. Such underpricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Many of CDD’s contracts, in particular, provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and they may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including:

•the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements;

•unexpected or undesired results of the products;

•insufficient patient enrollment;

•insufficient investigator recruitment;

•the client’s decision to terminate the development of a product or to end a particular study; and

•CDD’s failure to perform its duties properly under the contract.

Although its contracts often entitle it to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned up to the time of termination, the loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss, delay or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect CDD.

Contract research services in the drug development industry create liability risks.

In contracting to work on drug development trials and studies, CDD faces a range of potential liabilities, including:

•errors or omissions that create harm to study volunteers during a trial or to consumers of a drug after the trial is completed and regulatory approval of the drug has been granted;

•general risks associated with clinical pharmacology facilities, including negative consequences from the administration of drugs to clinical trial participants or the professional malpractice of clinical pharmacology medical care providers;

•risks that animals in CDD’s breeding facilities may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to themselves and humans despite preventive measures contained in CDD's business policies, including those for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and

•errors and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or data from the trial or study or may delay the entry of a drug to the market.

CDD also contracts with physicians, also referred to as investigators, to conduct the clinical trials to test new drugs on patients and volunteers. These tests can create a risk of liability for personal injury or death to volunteers, resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from professional malpractice by third party investigators.

While CDD endeavors to include in its contracts provisions entitling it to be indemnified or entitling it to a limitation of liability, these provisions do not uniformly protect CDD against liability arising from certain of its own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. CDD could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision or in the event that a party who must indemnify it does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or in the event that the damages and costs exceed CDD's insurance coverage. There can be no assurance that CDD will be able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage on terms acceptable to it.

Adverse results in material litigation matters could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

The Company may become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability and employee-related matters. The Company may also receive inquiries and requests for information from governmental agencies and bodies, including Medicare or Medicaid carriers, requesting comment and/or information on allegations of billing irregularities or billing and pricing arrangements that are brought to their attention through billing audits or third parties. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon its business.

The Company's quarterly operating results may vary.

The Company's operating results, particularly for CDD, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by factors over which the Company has little control such as:

•changes in the general global economy;

•exchange rate fluctuations;

•the commencement, completion, delay or cancellation of large projects or groups of projects;

•the progress of ongoing projects;

 33

Index

•the timing of and charges associated with completed acquisitions or other events; and

•changes in the mix of the Company's services.

The Company believes that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. While fluctuations in the Company's quarterly operating results could negatively or positively affect the market price of the Company's common stock, these fluctuations may not be related to the Company's future overall operating performance.

CDD’s revenues depend on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.

CDD’s revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in R&D. In some instances, companies in these industries are reliant on their ability to raise capital in order to fund their R&D projects. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends affecting CDD’s clients in these industries may also affect CDD. If companies in these industries were to reduce the number of R&D projects they conduct or outsource, whether through inability to raise capital, industry trends, economic conditions or otherwise, CDD could be materially adversely affected.

Actions of animal rights activists may have an adverse effect on the Company.

CDD's early development services utilize animals in preclinical testing of the safety and efficacy of drugs, and also breed and sell animals for biomedical research. Such activities are required for the development of new medicines and medical devices under regulatory regimes in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other countries. Acts of vandalism and other acts by animal rights activists who object to the use of animals in drug development could have an adverse effect on the Company.

Animal populations may suffer diseases that can damage CDD's inventory, harm its reputation, result in decreased sales of research products or result in other liability.

It is important that research products be free of diseases, including infectious diseases. The presence of diseases can distort or compromise the quality of research results, cause loss of animals in CDD’s inventory, result in harm to humans or outside animal populations if the disease is not contained to animals in inventory, or result in other losses. Such results could harm CDD’s reputation or have an adverse effect on CDD's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

Failure to conduct animal research in compliance with the Animal Welfare Act could result in sanctions and/or remedies against CDD and have a material adverse effect upon the Company.

The conduct of animal research at CDD’s facilities must be in compliance with the AWA, which governs the care and use of warm-blooded animals used for research in the U.S. other than laboratory rats, mice and chickens, and is enforced through periodic inspections by the USDA. The AWA establishes facility standards regarding several aspects of animal welfare, including housing, ventilation, lighting, feeding and watering, handling, veterinary care and recordkeeping. CDD complies with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the USDA and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions such as the European Union and China for the care and use of regulated species. If the USDA determines that CDD’s equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable AWA standards, it may issue an inspection report documenting the deficiencies and setting deadlines for any required corrective actions. For continued noncompliance, the USDA may impose fines, suspend and/or revoke animal research licenses, or confiscate research animals. Other countries where CDD conducts business may have similar laws with which CDD must also comply.

An inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. 

The loss of key management personnel or the inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified employees at the Company’s clinical laboratories and drug development facilities could adversely affect the business. The success of the Company is dependent in part on the efforts of key members of its management team. Success in maintaining the Company’s leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies and in drug development will depend in part on the Company’s ability to attract and retain skilled research professionals. In addition, the success of the Company’s clinical laboratories also depends on employing and retaining qualified and experienced laboratory professionals, including specialists, who perform clinical laboratory testing services. In the future, if competition for the services of these professionals increases, the Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain individuals in its markets. The Company’s revenues and earnings could be adversely affected if a significant number of professionals terminate their relationship with the Company or become unable or unwilling to continue their employment.

Unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages or failure to comply with labor or employment laws could adversely affect the Company's operations and have a material effect upon the Company's business.

The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions and is subject to employment and labor laws and unionization activity in the U.S. and other countries in which it conducts business. Disputes with regard to the terms of 

 34

Index

these agreements, its potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions, unionization activity, or a failure to comply with labor or employment laws could result in, among other things, labor unrest, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns by the affected workers, fines and penalities. If any of these events were to occur, or other employees were to become unionized, the Company could experience a significant disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business. Additionally, future labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, or changes in labor labor or employment laws, could compromise its service reliability and significantly increase its costs, which could have a material adverse impact upon the Company's business.

A significant increase in LCD's days sales outstanding could increase bad debt expense and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business including its cash flow.

Billing for laboratory services is a complex process. Laboratories bill many different payers including doctors, patients, hundreds of insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. In addition to billing complexities, LCD is experiencing increasing patient responsibility as a result of managed care fee-for-service plans which continue to increase deductibles, coinsurance and patient copayments. A material increase in LCD’s days sales outstanding level could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, including potentially increasing its bad debt rate and decreasing its cash flows.

Failure in the Company’s information technology systems or delays or failures in the development and implementation of the Company's LabCorp Beacon platform could significantly increase testing turn-around time or billing processes and otherwise disrupt the Company’s operations or customer relationships.

The Company’s laboratory operations and customer relationships depend, in part, on the continued performance of its information technology systems. Despite network security measures and other precautions the Company has taken, its information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptions. In addition, the Company is in the process of integrating the information technology systems of its recently acquired subsidiaries, and the Company may experience system failures or interruptions as a result of this process. Sustained system failures or interruption of the Company’s systems in one or more of its operations could disrupt the Company’s ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results or drug development data in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. The Company is also continuing to enhance its LabCorp Beacon platform and could experience delays or deficiencies in the development process. Failure of the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business, profitability and financial condition.

Operations may be disrupted and adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as adverse weather and earthquakes, or acts of terrorism, or other criminal activities, or disease pandemics. 

Such events may result in a temporary decline of testing volumes in both segments. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt the Company’s ability to transport specimens, the Company's ability to register participants, the Company’s information technology systems, the Company’s ability to utilize certain laboratories, and/or the Company’s ability to receive material from its suppliers.

A significant deterioration in the economy could negatively impact testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit.

The Company’s operations are dependent upon ongoing demand for diagnostic testing services by patients, physicians, hospitals, MCOs and others. A significant downturn in the economy could negatively impact the demand for diagnostic testing as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services ordered. In addition, uncertainty in the credit markets could reduce the availability of credit and impact the Company’s ability to meet its financing needs in the future.

Hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of computer and communications systems, the failure to implement system enhancements or cyber security breaches may harm the Company.

The Company's success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications systems. A failure of the network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of the business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While certain operations have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, there currently are not redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide IT capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions the Company may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and similar events at the Company's various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to the servers and from the servers to clients. In addition, any failure by the computer environment to provide required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in service. 

 35

Index

In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, the Company could be required to transfer data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in the ability to deliver products and services to clients. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage the Company's reputation and harm the business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which the Company has offices) and cybersecurity breaches could adversely affect the business. Although the Company carries property and business interruption insurance, the coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur.

Security breaches and unauthorized access to the Company or its customers’ data could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its business.

Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate the Company’s layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise personal information or proprietary or confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack the Company’s systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Outside parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees to take actions, including the release of confidential or sensitive information or to make fraudulent payments, through illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. Although the Company believes that it has robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, which are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate all of these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, as cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance the Company’s information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The Company’s remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service. Breaches of the Company’s security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of personal information, proprietary or confidential information about the Company or its customers or other third-parties, could expose customers’ private information and could expose customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft or expose the Company or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for the Company, damage the Company’s brand and reputation or otherwise harm the Company’s business. Any of these disruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, regulatory compliance, financial condition and results of operations.

Foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in reimbursement by foreign governments could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.

The Company has business and operations outside the U.S. and CDD derives a large portion of its net revenues from international operations. Since the Company's consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on reported results. In addition, in certain circumstances, CDD may incur costs in one currency related to its services or products for which it is paid in a different currency. As a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect CDD's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes by foreign governments in reimbursement for LCD’s services could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.

The Company's growing international operations could subject it to additional risks and expenses that could adversely impact the business or results of operations.

The expansion of the Company's international operations exposes it to risks from failure to comply with foreign laws and regulations that differ from those under which the Company operates in the U.S. In addition, the Company may be adversely affected by other risks of expanded operations in foreign countries, including export controls and trade regulations, changes in tax policies or other foreign laws, foreign labor and employee relations laws and regulations, restrictions on currency repatriation, judicial systems that less strictly enforce contractual rights, countries that provide less protection for intellectual property rights, and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services. Further, international operations could subject the Company to additional expenses that the Company may not fully anticipate, including those related to enhanced time and resources necessary to comply with foreign laws and regulations, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, and difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In some countries, the Company's success will depend in part on its ability to form relationships with local partners. The Company's inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements could adversely affect the business and operations.

 36

Index

A failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business objectives and its net revenues and profitability. 

Part of the Company's strategy involves deploying capital in investments that enhance the Company's business, which includes pursuing strategic acquisitions to strengthen the Company's scientific capabilities and enhance therapeutic expertise, enhance esoteric testing and global drug development capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas. Since 2010, the Company has invested net cash of approximately $5.8 billion and equity of $1.8 billion in strategic business acquisitions ($2.2 billion over the same period excluding the acquisition of Covance). However, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to identify acquisition targets that are attractive to the Company or that are of a large enough size to have a meaningful impact on the Company's operating results. Furthermore, the successful closing and integration of a strategic acquisition entails numerous risks, including, among others: 

•failure to obtain regulatory clearance, including due to antitrust concerns;

•loss of key customers or employees;

•difficulty in consolidating redundant facilities and infrastructure and in standardizing information and other systems;

•unidentified regulatory problems;

•failure to maintain the quality of services that such companies have historically provided;

•coordination of geographically-separated facilities and workforces; and

•diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of the Company.

The Company cannot assure that current or future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that the Company's business will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions, including with respect to net revenues and profitability. Even if the Company is able to successfully integrate the operations of businesses that it may acquire in the future, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits that it expects from such acquisitions.

The Company’s substantially increased indebtedness could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and business. 

At December 31, 2015, indebtedness on the Company's outstanding Senior Notes totaled approximately $5,525.0 million in aggregate principal. The Company is also a party to credit agreements relating to a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and a term loan with a principal balance of $715.0 million as of December 31, 2015. Under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, the Company is subject to negative covenants limiting subsidiary indebtedness and certain other covenants typical for investment grade-rated borrowers, and the Company is required to maintain a leverage ratio that declines over time. 

The Company’s increased indebtedness could adversely affect its business. In particular, it could increase the Company’s vulnerability to sustained, adverse macroeconomic weakness, limit its ability to obtain further financing and limit its ability to pursue certain operational and strategic opportunities.

The Company may also enter into additional transactions or credit facilities, including other long-term debt, which may increase its indebtedness and result in additional restrictions upon the business. In addition, major debt rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company's debt based on a number of factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its existing debt ratings, and failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets.

Failure to successfully integrate the business of Covance or to realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, net revenues and profitability and the market price of its common stock. 

 If the Company fails to successfully complete the integration of Covance into its existing operations or is not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition and integration, its business and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration process could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, or disruptions in its relationships with suppliers and other parties with which it deals that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts could also place a significant burden on the Company's management, employees and internal resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other business opportunities and improvements.

The ongoing success of the transaction will depend, in significant part, on the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including the opportunity for revenue growth in development and commercialization of drugs and diagnostics, nutritional analysis and other areas, including a number of new business areas for the Company. Actual revenue growth may be 

 37

Index

lower than the Company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated, and expenses may be higher than the Company expects. The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the Acquisition and integration that may prove to be materially inaccurate, including:

•the Company’s assessments of the asset quality and value of Covance and its assets;

•projections of the business and CDD's future financial performance;

•timing and total costs of integrating a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems;

•the Company’s ability to realize synergies and the timeline for doing so;

•the Company’s ability to develop, maintain and deepen relationships with CDD's customers; and

•other financial and strategic risks of the Acquisition.

If one or more of these assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results, and the value of its common stock may be adversely affected.

In addition, although CDD is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties that the Company faces in its business, the acquisition of Covance also involves the Company entering new product and services areas, markets and industries, which presents risks resulting from the Company’s relative inexperience in these new areas. CDD’s business could react differently to economic and other external factors than the Company’s. The Company faces the risk that it will not be successful with these new products and services or in these new markets.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

 38

Index

Item 2. PROPERTIES