ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more  

important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”  

Current uncertainties in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. While there are indications that both the financial markets and the economy have recovered somewhat from the recent world-wide recession, there appear to remain depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. These factors continue to have a significant effect on both the global economy and our business. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:  

   •    The amount and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so.  

   •    During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Asset and Wealth Management segments.  

   •    Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or  

BNY Mellon 17  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management segment.  

   •    Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds.  

   •    We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.  

   •    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations.  

   •    Our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.  

   •    FDIC premiums have become considerably higher recently because market developments have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Premiums may continue to increase until the value of the fund has returned to levels the FDIC determines appropriate.  

   •    The value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other post-retirement plan assets, may decrease.  

Levels of market volatility have been unprecedented.  

The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. While markets have stabilized in recent months, further upheaval could produce downward  

pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. See the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions; impairment of our instruments could harm our earnings.  

We maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio consists of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Market Risk” in our Annual Report, which section is incorporated herein by reference.  

Competition—We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

18 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.  

Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions. These or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively.  

Dependence on fee-based business—We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.  

Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.  

Fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending  

 volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.  

Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.  

Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.  

The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.  

BNY Mellon 19  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.  

The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.  

Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.  

We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounts payable activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations.  

Strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks.  

From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  

Any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  

Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  

In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength  

20 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.  

The outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  

Interest Rate Environment—Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  

Our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.  

The global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. During fiscal 2009, the Federal Open Market Committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. The low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. It has also resulted in our voluntarily waiving fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees in order to prevent our clients’ yields on such funds from becoming negative. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally  

 results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following additional effects:  

   •    changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under “Asset/liability management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference;  

   •    an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;  

   •    a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates;  

   •    increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; and  

   •    decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.  

A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Capital Adequacy—We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. In light of recent market events, proposed regulations, including President Obama’s recent proposal to limit the market share of liabilities  

BNY Mellon 21  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 at large financial firms, and proposed changes in regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. Failure by our largest subsidiary to maintain its status as “well-capitalized” and “well managed,” if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a FHC and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Liquidity and dividends”, “Capital — Capital Framework” and “— Capital Adequacy” in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Access to Capital Markets—If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  

We operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the Obama administration, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.  

Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives may significantly impact our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities.  

The recent economic and political environment has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives, both enacted and proposed, that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and may significantly impact us. For example, the Obama administration, Congress and our  

22 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 regulators are currently considering a variety of proposals that would make far reaching changes to the financial regulatory system and significantly affect the financial services industry, including: the Volcker Rule, which would prohibit banks and financial institutions from owning, investing or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund, or engaging in proprietary trading operations for their own profit unrelated to serving customers; increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions (and even higher capital requirements for systemically important financial firms, such as BNY Mellon) and the imposition of formulaic liquidity requirements, as proposed by the Basel Committee and discussed above under “Supervision and Regulation”; limitations on the size of large banking institutions, including allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a grave risk to the economy; limits on the growth of market share of liabilities; a “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee” proposed by the Obama administration on covered liabilities of the largest U.S. financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, that would be assessed for at least the next ten years; heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of the compensation practices of financial institutions; a new Financial Services Oversight Council chaired by the U.S. Treasury Secretary; a Consumer Financial Protection Agency; potential limits on the scope of federal preemption of state laws as applied to national banks; greater powers to regulate risk across the financial system; new requirements for the securitizations market, changes in the regulatory agencies and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions. The proposals generally call for increased scrutiny and regulation for financial firms whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if they were to fail. Additionally, substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S., are possible in the years ahead.  

These legislative and regulatory initiatives could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, limit the products that we offer, result in a loss of revenue, limit our competitiveness or our ability to pursue business opportunities, cause business disruptions, impact the value of assets that we hold or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The long-term impact of these initiatives on our business practices and revenues  

 will depend upon the successful implementation of our strategies and competitors’ responses to such initiatives, all of which are difficult to predict. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Supervision and Regulation” above.  

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies—Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.  

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Due to current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” above.  

Operational Risk—We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company, business interruption due to system failures or other events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the  

BNY Mellon 23  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

Reputational and Legal Risk—Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.  

Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the recent events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of “know your customer,” anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. Such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the United States, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K.  

Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.  

Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and  

 corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  

Technology—We depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.  

We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.  

24 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.  

Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.  

We use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. If any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. If a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.  

Acts of Terrorism—Acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business.  

Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business  

 continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the recent terror attacks in Pune and Mumbai, India, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict.  

Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.  

From time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products and services. In addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. In the event such withholding were to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability.  

New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.  

From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services  

BNY Mellon 25  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  

We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.  

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them.  

Tax Laws and Regulations—Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.  

In the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. If we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.  

Accounting Principles—Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other  

 financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business.  

For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) recently issued SFAS No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46 (R),” effective January, 2010. SFAS No. 167 requires certain of our variable interest entities to be consolidated, which will increase our balance sheet and subject us to additional capital requirements. See “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the Annual Report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference. Further revisions to SFAS No. 167 may have an additional impact on us, which cannot be predicted at this time.  

Credit Reserves—We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.  

We have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings.  

Holding Company—We are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  

We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our  

26 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 principal bank subsidiaries – The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. – and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. For example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of our securities portfolio in the third quarter of 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. will require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend to us. Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Liquidity and Dividends” in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.  

Limits on common stock dividends.  

Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. As a result of charges relating to the restructuring of the securities portfolio, any  

 increase in BNY Mellon’s ongoing quarterly dividend would require consultation with the Federal Reserve. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.  

Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES