PART I   

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“BNY Mellon”), with The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation being the surviving entity. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial by The Bank of New York Company, Inc. for accounting and financial reporting purposes. For additional information on the merger, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in BNY Mellon’s 2009 Annual Report (“Annual Report”), which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK) is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with approximately $1.1 trillion in assets under management and $22.3 trillion in assets under custody and administration. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview” and “Business segments review” sections in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) section in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were formed as a bank holding company and have our executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.  

Our two principal banks are:  

   •    The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, formerly named “The Bank of New York”, which houses our institutional businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.  

   •    BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named “Mellon Bank, N.A.”, which houses our Wealth Management business.  

Our U.S. bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.  

We have two U.S. trust companies – The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services is BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of our Parent, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  

We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing Services; Treasury Services and Other. Information on international operations is presented in the Annual Report in “Results of Operations – Net interest revenue – Average balances and interest rates”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – Loans by product,” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – International loans” which are incorporated herein by reference.  

Principal Entities  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2009.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, BNY Mellon reports results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. Note 4 is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.  

BNY Mellon 3  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Supervision and Regulation  

BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries are subject to an extensive system of banking laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries in which we operate that are intended primarily for the protection of the customers and depositors of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries rather than holders of BNY Mellon’s securities. These laws and regulations govern such areas as levels of capital, permissible activities, reserves, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Similarly, our subsidiaries engaged in investment advisory and other securities related activities are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to benefit clients of investment advisors and shareholders in mutual funds rather than holders of BNY Mellon’s securities. In addition, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are subject to general U.S. federal laws and regulations, and to the laws and regulations of the states or countries in which BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are organized or conduct businesses. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries.  

Market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the United States and internationally. For potentially significant changes in the regulation of the financial services industry and their potential impact on us, see “Risk Factors – Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives may significantly impact our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon  

BNY Mellon is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “BHC Act”). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding  

 companies that are FHCs to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.  

Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to qualify as “well capitalized” as described under “Prompt Corrective Action” below.  

An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without FHC status or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements. The Bank of New York Mellon, which is BNY Mellon’s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the “NYSBD”). BNY Mellon’s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”).  

We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC registered broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), a securities industry self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon’s U.S. non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by the SEC.  

4 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended and, as such, are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “‘40 Act”), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the ‘40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.  

Certain of BNY Mellon’s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA 2000”). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). The FSA has broad supervisory and disciplinary powers. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.  

Certain of BNY Mellon’s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of BNY Mellon’s subsidiaries are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.  

The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.  

Dividend Restrictions  

BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory consent. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution’s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is under capitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.  

The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement with respect to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the holding company’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.  

BNY Mellon 5  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 The ability of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations. For example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of BNY Mellon’s securities portfolio in 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. will require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend. In addition, any increase in the ongoing quarterly dividend to our common stockholders would require consultation with the Federal Reserve. For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the “Liquidity and dividends” section in the MD&A section in the Annual Report and the first five paragraphs of Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, BNY Mellon’s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are certain restrictions on the ability of BNY Mellon and its non-bank affiliates to borrow from, and engage in other transactions with, its bank subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. In addition, certain bank transactions with affiliates must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.  

Unsafe and Unsound Practices   

The federal banking agencies have authority to prohibit the banks they supervise from engaging in any activity which, in the appropriate agency’s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting the bank’s business. The Federal Reserve  

 Board has similar authority with respect to BNY Mellon and our non-bank subsidiaries. In addition, the NYSBD also has similar authority with respect to The Bank of New York Mellon.  

Deposit Insurance  

Our U.S. banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis.  

As part of its efforts to rebuild the DIF, the FDIC adopted a rule imposing a special assessment of five basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009 subject to a cap of 10 basis points of average assessable domestic deposits for the second quarter of 2009. This special assessment totaled approximately $61 million for our bank subsidiaries. Additionally, as part of its efforts to rebuild the DIF, the FDIC also required insured depository institutions, including our bank subsidiaries, to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. On Dec. 30, 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., our two principal banks, prepaid an aggregate of $295 million for their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for these periods.  

We also participated in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. See page 12 for a discussion of deposit insurance related to that program.  

Source of Strength  

Under the BHC Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, BNY Mellon is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to those subsidiaries. Such support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the  

6 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions and Related Matters  

The FDI Act contains a “cross-guarantee” provision that could result in any insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon.  

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank, such as BNY Mellon, N.A. or The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank’s shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.  

Regulatory Capital  

The federal bank regulatory authorities have substantially similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.  

The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). As discussed further below, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks”, including BNY Mellon, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005.  

Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted  

 categories. The required minimum ratio of “Total capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2) to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. At Dec. 31, 2009, BNY Mellon’s Total capital and Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 16.0% and 12.1%, respectively. Additional information on the calculation of our Tier 1 capital, Total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in “Capital” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  

The risk-based capital requirements identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, and the management of those risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy. In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations’ own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators.  

The federal bank regulatory agencies are mandating the adoption of Basel II for “core” banks. BNY Mellon and its depository institution subsidiaries are “core” banks. The only approach available to “core” banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“A-IRB”) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) for operational risk.  

The U.S. Basel II final rule, published by the U.S. regulatory agencies, became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2009 was the first year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old guidelines and new guidelines.  

In the U.S., we will begin the parallel run of calculations under both the old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach for our banks organized in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We  

BNY Mellon 7  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process. We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices.  

The Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to comply with minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a bank holding company’s Tier 1 capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The guidelines require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2009, our leverage ratio was 6.5%.  

The Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a “tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).  

Basel Proposed Capital and Liquidity Requirements  

On Dec. 17, 2009, the Basel Committee issued two consultative documents proposing reforms to bank capital and liquidity regulation, which are intended to address lessons learned from the financial crisis that began in 2007. The document titled “Strengthening the Resilience of the Banking Sector”, which proposes reforms to bank capital, and the document titled “International Framework for Liquidity Risk Management, Standards and Monitoring” are discussed below. The proposal included in the document titled “Strengthening the Resilience of the Banking Sector” would significantly revise the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, with the most significant changes being to Tier 1 capital. Among other things, the proposal would disqualify  

 certain capital instruments – including U.S.-style trust preferred securities and other instruments that effectively pay cumulative distributions – from Tier 1 capital status.  

The liquidity proposals included in the document titled “International Framework for Liquidity Risk Management, Standards and Monitoring”, would impose two measures of liquidity risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon and the other addressing longer-term structural liquidity mismatches over a one-year time period.  

The Basel Committee indicated that it expects final provisions responsive to the proposals to be implemented by Dec. 31, 2012. Ultimate implementation in individual countries, including the United States, is subject to the discretion of the bank regulators in those countries. The Basel Committee’s final proposals may differ from the proposals released in December 2009, and the regulations and guidelines adopted by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries may differ from the final accord of the Basel Committee. Moreover, although some aspects of the Basel Committee proposals were quite specific (for example, the definition of the components of capital), others were merely conceptual (for example, the description of the leverage test) and others not specifically addressed (for example, the minimum percentages for required capital ratios). We are not able to predict at this time the content of guidelines or regulations that will ultimately be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries or the impact of changes in capital and liquidity regulation upon us. However, if current requirements are revised to mandate that BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries maintain more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of their assets and liabilities in order to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements, it could significantly impact our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities.  

U.S. Treasury Proposed Capital Requirements  

In September 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued a policy statement “Principles for Reforming the U.S. and International Regulatory Capital Framework for Banking Firms.” This statement sets forth core principles that the Treasury believes would shape a new international capital accord to better protect the safety and soundness of  

8 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 individual banking firms and the stability of the global financial system and economy. These core principles include: (a) capital requirements should be designed to protect the stability of the financial system, not just the solvency of individual banking firms; (b) capital requirements for all banks should be increased and those that could pose a threat to overall financial stability should be higher than others; (c) there should be a greater emphasis on higher quality forms of capital (common equity should constitute a “large majority” of a bank’s Tier 1 capital); (d) risk-based capital requirements should be a function of the relative risk; (e) the procyclicality of the regulatory capital and accounting regimes should be reduced (hold a larger buffer over banks’ minimum capital requirements during good times); (f) banks should be subject to a simple, non-risk-based leverage constraint; (g) banks should be subject to a conservative, explicit liquidity standard; and (h) stricter capital and liquidity requirements for the banking system should not be allowed to result in the re-emergence of an under-regulated non-bank financial sector that poses a threat to financial stability.  

The U.S. Department of the Treasury issued this statement to facilitate the process of reaching a domestic and then international consensus on a new regulatory capital and liquidity regime for global banking firms. The Department of the Treasury seeks to reach a comprehensive international agreement on the new global framework by Dec. 31, 2010, with implementation of the reforms effective Dec. 31, 2012.  

Prompt Corrective Action  

The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more  

 restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  

At Dec. 31, 2009, all of our bank subsidiaries were well-capitalized based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank’s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects.  

The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well-capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDI Act provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice.  

The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the institution.  

Compensation Practices  

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. In October 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, including bank holding companies such as BNY Mellon. The proposal sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate governance. The proposal also contemplates a detailed review by the Federal Reserve Board of the incentive compensation policies and practices of a number of “large, complex banking  

BNY Mellon 9  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 organizations,” including us. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The proposal provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve Board’s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop, and we expect that these policies will evolve over a number of years.  

In September 2009, the Financial Stability Board, established by the leaders of the Group of 20, released standards for implementing certain compensation principles for banks and other financial companies designed to encourage sound compensation practices. These standards are to be implemented by local regulators. Thus far, regulators in a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, France and Germany, have proposed or adopted policies related to compensation at financial institutions. These policies are in addition to the proposals made by the Federal Reserve Board in October 2009. The United Kingdom has announced a 50% tax on certain financial institutions in respect of discretionary bonuses in excess of £25,000 awarded to “relevant banking employees” at such institutions between Dec. 9, 2009 and April 5, 2010 or awarded under arrangements made between those dates. Separately, the FDIC has solicited comments on whether to amend its risk-based deposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation programs that put the DIF at risk.  

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution  

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:  

   •    to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;  

   •    to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or  

   •    to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.  

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the depository institution.  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.  

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act  

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon’s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing  

10 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.  

Asset-backed Commercial Paper Liquidity Facility Program  

In September 2008, the Federal Reserve announced an Asset Backed Commercial Paper (“ABCP”) Money Market Mutual Fund (“MMMF”) Liquidity Facility program (the “ABCP Program”).  

Eligible borrowers under the ABCP Program include all U.S. depository institutions, U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks and broker-dealers. Eligible borrowers were permitted to borrow funds under the ABCP Program in order to fund the purchase of eligible ABCP from an MMMF. The MMMF must be a fund that qualifies as a money market mutual fund under Rule 2a-7 of the ‘40 Act. ABCP used for collateral in the ABCP Program must be rated no lower than A1, F1 or P1, U.S. dollar denominated and from a U.S. issuer. The ABCP Program ended on Feb. 1, 2010.  

Borrowings under the ABCP Program are non-recourse. Further, the ABCP pledged under the ABCP Program receives a 0% risk weight for risk-based capital purposes and is excluded from average total consolidated assets for leverage capital purposes.  

BNY Mellon repaid all borrowings related to this program in early 2009.  

Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds  

In September 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department opened its Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds (the “Temporary Guarantee Program”), under which the U.S. Treasury guaranteed the share price of any publicly offered eligible money market fund that applied for and paid a fee to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. All money market funds that are  

 structured within the confines of Rule 2a-7 of the ‘40 Act that maintain a stable share price of $1.00, are publicly offered and are registered with the SEC were eligible to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program.  

The Temporary Guarantee Program provided coverage to shareholders for amounts that they held in participating money market funds at the close of business on Sept. 19, 2008. The guarantee was triggered if the market value of assets held in a participating fund fell below $0.995 per share, the fund’s sponsor chose not to maintain the $1.00 share price, and the fund’s board determined to liquidate the fund. Each Dreyfus and BNY Mellon Funds Trust money market fund entered into a Guarantee Agreement with the Department of the Treasury which permitted these funds to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program.  

The Temporary Guarantee Program was designed to address temporary dislocations in credit markets and initially was scheduled to run through Dec. 18, 2008. The Department of the Treasury extended the Temporary Guarantee Program until Sept. 18, 2009 but chose not to further extend the program. Accordingly, as of Sept. 18, 2009, the program no longer provides any guarantee against loss to money market fund shareholders with respect to fund shares held.  

U.S. Treasury Program – Investment in U.S. Financial Institutions  

In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The intention of this program is to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. In connection with the CPP, BNY Mellon issued $3 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, and a warrant for common stock to the U.S. Treasury. In June 2009, we repurchased the Series B Preferred Stock for $3.0 billion, which reflects the liquidation value of the preferred stock. BNY Mellon paid the U.S. Treasury an aggregate of approximately $95 million in dividends on the Series B preferred shares from Oct. 28, 2008 through the repurchase date. In August 2009, we repurchased the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury for $136 million.  

BNY Mellon 11  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”). This program:  

   •    Guarantees certain types of senior unsecured debt issued by participating U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. savings and loan holding companies and FDIC-insured depositary institutions between Oct. 14, 2008 and Oct. 31, 2009, including promissory notes, commercial paper and any unsecured portion of senior debt. In 2009, BNY Mellon issued approximately $600 million of FDIC-guaranteed debt maturing June 29, 2012 under this program, which was the maximum amount of the debt permissible for it under the TLGP. At Dec. 31, 2009, $2 billion of other companies’ debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program is included in BNY Mellon’s investment securities portfolio.  

   •    Provides full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for funds held by participating FDIC-insured depository institutions (“IDI”) including deposits held at BNY Mellon for over $250,000 in noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts until Dec. 31, 2009. This program was extended for participating IDIs until June 30, 2010. BNY Mellon elected to opt-out of the extension of this program. Our participation in the program ended on Dec. 31, 2009.  

Money Market Investor Funding Facility  

In October 2008, the Federal Reserve Board announced the creation of the Money Market Investor Funding Facility (“MMIFF”), which supports a private-sector initiative designed to provide liquidity to U.S. money market investors.  

Under the MMIFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York provided senior secured financing to a series of special purpose vehicles (“SPVs”) that purchase high-  

 quality money market instruments maturing in 90 days or less from U.S. money market funds. Eligible assets include U.S. dollar-denominated certificates of deposit and commercial paper issued by highly rated financial institutions and having remaining maturities of 90 days or less. Eligible investors include U.S. money market mutual funds and over time may include other U.S. money market investors. In January 2009, the Federal Reserve Board expanded the set of institutions eligible to participate in the MMIFF from U.S. money market mutual funds to also include U.S.-based securities lending cash collateral reinvestment funds, portfolios and accounts (securities lenders) and U.S.-based investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds, such as certain local government investment pools, common trust funds and collective investment funds.  

The MMIFF became operational on Nov. 24, 2008, with SPVs becoming eligible to begin purchasing assets on that date. The MMIFF expired on Oct. 30, 2009.  

SEC Adopts Money Market Fund Reforms  

In February 2010, the SEC adopted new rules intended to increase the resilience of money market funds to economic stresses and reduce the risks of runs on the funds by tightening maturity and credit quality standards and imposing new minimum liquidity requirements. In part, these rules (a) limit fund purchases of Second Tier securities (securities of other than the highest credit quality) to 3% of total net assets; (b) establish minimum Daily and Weekly Liquidity Standards for funds (10% of a fund’s assets must be invested in “Daily Liquid Assets” and 30% in “Weekly Liquid Assets”, which generally include cash, U.S. Government securities, or securities readily convertible to cash within one or five business days, respectively); (c) establish a General Liquidity Requirement and for funds to adopt related “Know Your Investor” procedures; (d) require funds to limit purchases of securities that are not “Liquid Assets” to 5% of total net assets; (e) reduce maximum portfolio weighted average maturity from 90 days to 60 days; (f) establish a maximum “weighted average life to maturity” of 120 days (to reduce spread risk); (g) require that funds  

12 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 perform periodic stress tests of fund portfolios; (h) enhance fund portfolio holdings disclosure requirements; (i) mandate the ability to process investor redemption orders at a price of less than $1; and (j) empower fund boards to suspend redemptions if a fund is about to “break” the $1 share price and the board decides to liquidate the fund.  

The SEC Commissioners, in voting to approve these reforms, indicated publicly that they anticipate a second round of rule-making with additional reforms in the foreseeable future. Issues mentioned for consideration include a private liquidity facility for money market funds, a floating net asset value (“NAV”) money market fund to replace the fixed NAV money market fund that is prevalent today, a possible two-tiered regulatory system for fixed and floating NAV money market funds, and other matters raised in President Obama’s Working Group Report (once issued).  

We believe that the reforms adopted by the SEC in February 2010 will have a minimal impact on our money market mutual fund business. However, if further reforms of the type being contemplated by the SEC Commissioners are implemented, they may have a greater effect on altering money market mutual funds industry-wide.  

Privacy  

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies. Should BNY Mellon or its U.S. bank subsidiaries fail to adequately serve these communities, potential penalties could be imposed, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new financial activities and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.  

Acquisitions  

Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant’s record under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to informal notice and approval by the Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory authorities.  

Legislative Initiatives  

Various legislative initiatives, such as those discussed in this section, are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations.  

Proposals to Limit Activities and Size of Financial Institutions and Tax Large Financial Firms  

In January 2010, President Obama announced two initiatives aimed at U.S. financial institutions. The first proposes to limit both the size and scope of U.S. financial institutions (the “Volcker Rule”). The Volcker Rule would prohibit U.S. banks, bank holding companies and other depository institution holding companies from owning, investing in or sponsoring hedge funds, private equity funds and proprietary trading operations that are unrelated to serving client needs. In addition, the Volcker Rule seeks to limit the consolidation of the financial sector by restricting the growth of the market share of liabilities, including non-deposit funding, at the largest financial firms. This limit would supplement existing caps on the market share of deposits.  

The second proposal is a “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee,” a tax that would be levied on bank, thrift and insurance companies and broker-  

BNY Mellon 13  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

dealers with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets. As currently proposed, the fee would go into effect on June 30, 2010 and would remain in force for 10 years or longer. The fee would be calculated on total assets excluding Tier 1 capital and assessed deposits. Based on the amounts of assets on its balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2009, BNY Mellon estimates that it would be responsible for paying approximately $200 million annually under this proposal, if enacted as currently proposed.  

Financial regulatory reform continues to be a top priority for the Obama Administration. The U.S. House of Representatives (the “House”) passed the “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” on Dec. 11, 2009. The U.S. Senate has not yet enacted legislation in this area. The Senate Banking Committee draft bill, “Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2009” is still in draft form and currently under discussion. Both legislative products focus on measures to improve financial stability, provide for more effective bank supervision, enhance the regulation of consumer financial products and services through the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency and allow for better coordination between regulatory agencies. The House’s bill would establish a Systemic Dissolution Fund to help wind down financial institutions when necessary. The fund would be pre-funded by FDIC assessments on large financial companies with assets exceeding $50 billion, to pay for the resolution of a bank holding company, a systemically important financial company, an insurance company or any other financial company. The Senate Banking Committee’s draft proposal has a similar resolution mechanism and sets the threshold at $10 billion or more.  

Competition  

BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management business segments experience competition from asset management firms; hedge funds; investment banking companies; bank and financial holding companies; banks, including trust banks; brokerage firms; and insurance companies. These firms and companies may be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Clearing and Treasury Services business segments compete with domestic and foreign banks that offer institutional trust, custody products and cash management products, as well as a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder  

service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer services for institutional and retail customers.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “Supervision and Regulation” section and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.  

As a result of current conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general, competition could intensify and consolidation of financial service companies could increase.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to this. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Competition” below, which is incorporated into this Item by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2009, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 42,200 employees.  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies  

The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Industry Guide 3 (together “Guide 3”) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in “Net interest revenue” and the “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections and in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

14 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

II. Investment Portfolio  

A. Book Value of Investments;  

B. Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,  

C. Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders’ Equity  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Investment securities” sections and in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

III. Loan Portfolio  

A. Types of Loans and  

B. Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review– Loans” section and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

C. Risk Elements and  

D. Other Interest-bearing Assets  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans and Non-performing assets” and “International operations-Cross-border risk” sections and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section, which is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in  

determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report “Credit Risk” section, in “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under “Allowance for Loan Losses and Allowance for Lending Related Commitments” and in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Deposits” sections and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial Summary” section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

VII. Short-Term Borrowings  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Other Borrowings” section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

Replacement Capital Covenant  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.369% junior subordinated debentures (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “Trust”) and the issuance by the Trust of £200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust’s 6.369% preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the “Securities.” Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under the RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  

BNY Mellon 15  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 “Covered Debt” in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

 •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

 •    BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or  

repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.  

The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “2007 RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of $500,100,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes (the “Junior Notes”) to Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) and the issuance by the 2007 Trust of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under the 2007 RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the 2007 RCC, that on or before the “Stock Purchase Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before a date ten years after the Stock Purchase Date, with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the PCS (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the “2007 Securities”):  

 •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and  

16 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.  

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS