Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW

Nordstrom is a leading fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise through our various channels: 'Nordstrom' branded full-line stores and online at www.nordstrom.com, 'Nordstrom Rack' off-price stores, 'Last Chance' clearance store, 'HauteLook' online private sale subsidiary, 'Jeffrey' boutiques and our 'treasure&bond' philanthropic store. Our stores are located in 31 states throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a loyalty program along with a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.

Our 2012 results reflected the ongoing, consistent strength of our business. For the third consecutive year, we achieved double-digit growth in net sales and earnings per diluted share, added over one billion dollars in net sales and delivered same-store sales growth of over 7%. These accomplishments reflect the high level of execution across all channels and our ongoing investments in improving the customer experience as we seek to enhance the merchandise offering, increase relevance with existing and new customers, and aggressively grow our online capabilities.

E-commerce is our fastest-growing business. We continued to make investments to improve the experience online by expanding our merchandise selection, enhancing the website and mobile experience with improvements to search, navigation and checkout, and increasing the speed of fulfillment and delivery. These investments helped drive same-store sales growth of 37% in our Direct channel on top of last year's 29% growth.

We also continue to grow through new opportunities to increase our market share. We announced plans for our initial entry into Canada, beginning with four full-line stores and with the potential for a total of eight to 10 full-line stores and 15 to 20 Rack stores. In addition, we are again increasing the pace of expansion of our Rack stores with plans to grow to over 230 stores by the end of 2016. We also announced plans to open our first full-line store in Manhattan, which will increase our exposure within a premiere retail market.

Our strong financial position enables us to invest in our stores through expansion, remodels and other initiatives to improve the customer experience. During 2012, we opened one Nordstrom full-line store, 15 Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated three Nordstrom Rack stores. Increasingly, we are using technology as an enabler of service. As an example, we now have mobile point-of-sale devices at all of our full-line and Rack stores to increase the speed at checkout and drive incremental volume. Additionally, mobile devices in our full-line stores have virtually the same functionality as our cash registers, and we continue to make progress in creating a fully mobile store environment.

Our credit business also plays an important role in reaching new customers and strengthening existing customer relationships through our Fashion Rewards program, payment products and our ability to serve customers directly through our wholly owned credit services. The Fashion Rewards program contributes to our overall results, with members shopping more frequently and spending more on average than non-members. In 2012, net sales from our members increased 23% over the prior year. With the launch of our enhanced program in early 2012, we opened over one million new accounts, and ended the year with 3.3 million active members, a 27% increase over last year. Our overall credit card portfolio also remains healthy, with delinquency and write-off trends at pre-recession levels. 

Our ongoing focus on the customer drives the investments we are making to take advantage of multiple growth opportunities. The opportunities include Canada, Rack, e-commerce, Manhattan and other new full-line stores and provide a platform to deliver sustainable, profitable growth. As our business and operating model evolves with our growth, we remain focused on our overall financial goals of achieving high single-digit total sales growth and mid-teens Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC"), as these measures correlate strongly with shareholder return.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. Our Retail segment includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and website, our Nordstrom Rack stores, our Last Chance clearance store and our other retail channels including HauteLook, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the "Corporate/Other" column of our segment reporting footnote (collectively, the "Retail Business"). We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and earnings before income taxes for Credit, while interest expense and income taxes are discussed on a total company basis.

Similar to many other retailers, Nordstrom follows the retail 4-5-4 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of 2012 (the "53rd week"). The analysis of our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources compares the 53 weeks in 2012 to the 52 weeks in 2011. However, the 53rd week is not included in same-store sales calculations. In 2012, the 53rd week contributed approximately $0.04 to earnings per diluted share.

16
Retail Business

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Retail Business Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other retail includes our HauteLook online private sale subsidiary, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store.

2 4-wall sales per square foot is calculated as sales for Nordstrom full-line, Nordstrom Rack, Jeffrey and treasure&bond stores divided by their weighted-average square footage. Weighted-average square footage includes a percentage of period-end square footage for new stores equal to the percentage of the period during which they were open.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  17
NET SALES – 2012 VS 2011 

Our total net sales increase of 12.1% for 2012 was driven by the same-store sales increase of 7.3% and strong performances across all channels. Our sales productivity continued to improve, reaching a high of $470 in sales per square foot in 2012 from increases in both our stores and online. During the year, we opened one Nordstrom full-line store, 15 Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated three Nordstrom Rack stores. These additions represented 1.5% of our total net sales for 2012, and increased our square footage by 2.2%. The 53rd week contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales.

Nordstrom net sales for 2012 were $9,233, an increase of 9.6% compared with 2011, with same-store sales up 7.5%. Our sales growth was due in large part to the ongoing, consistent strength of our business both in store and online. We enhanced our Fashion Rewards loyalty program and expanded our relationship with our customers. At the same time, we made investments to improve the in-store, online and mobile experience. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased in 2012 compared with 2011. Category highlights included Handbags, Men's Shoes, Men's Apparel and Cosmetics. We also saw improvements in our Women's Apparel business in the second half of the year.

Full-line net sales for 2012 were $7,964, an increase of 6.0% compared with 2011, with same-store sales up 3.9%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for 2012 were the South and Midwest. The Direct channel continued to show strong sales growth with net sales of $1,269, an increase of 39% compared with 2011, with same-store sales up 37% on a comparable 52-week basis. These increases significantly outpaced our overall performance and are reflective of how customers are responding to our ongoing e-commerce initiatives.

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,445, an increase of 20% compared with 2011, while same-store sales increased 7.4% for the year. Men's Apparel, Shoes and Women's Apparel were the strongest performing categories for the year. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased in 2012 compared with 2011.

NET SALES – 2011 VS 2010 

Net sales for 2011 increased 12.7% compared with 2010, while same-store sales increased 7.2%. During 2011, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, 18 Nordstrom Rack stores and one treasure&bond store, relocated two Nordstrom Rack stores and acquired HauteLook. These additions represented 4.0% of our total net sales for 2011, and increased our square footage by 3.8%.

Nordstrom net sales for 2011 were $8,426, up 9.4% compared with 2010, with same-store sales up 8.2%. Our sales growth was driven by our merchandising, inventory management and multi-channel initiatives as well as our efforts to build stronger relationships with customers and to improve the shopping experience across all channels. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased in 2011 compared with 2010. Category highlights included Designer, Handbags and Shoes. 

Full-line net sales for 2011 were $7,513, an increase of 7.4% compared with 2010, with same-store sales up 6.0%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for 2011 were the South and Midwest. The Direct channel continued to show strong sales growth with net sales of $913, an increase of 30% in 2011 compared with 2010. 

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,045, up 21% compared with 2010, while same-store sales increased 3.7% for the year. Shoes, Dresses and Accessories were the strongest performing categories for the year. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased in 2011 compared with 2010.

18
Retail Business Gross Profit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers' expenses and rates.

2 Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory.

GROSS PROFIT – 2012 VS 2011 

Retail gross profit increased $464 in 2012 compared with 2011 due to our strong sales performance, partially offset by an increase in occupancy costs for our investments in new stores and remodeling of existing stores. Our gross profit rate decreased 13 basis points compared with 2011 primarily due to accelerated Rack growth, which carries a lower gross profit rate relative to our other channels, and overall occupancy costs that outpace sales in the early years following a store opening. With Rack's high sales productivity and return on invested capital, as well as the availability of what we believe are numerous quality locations, we plan to continue to grow our Rack channel.

Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 5.37 times in 2012, from 5.56 times in 2011. This was primarily due to our increased investment in pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack, which involves the acquisition of merchandise from some of our top brands in advance of the upcoming selling seasons in order to take advantage of strategic buying opportunities. We hold this inventory in our warehouses for six months on average until the next selling season and it represents approximately 10% of our total inventory at the end of 2012 compared with 3% in 2011. On a per square foot basis, we ended the year with a 15.8% increase in our ending inventory on a 9.0% increase in sales compared with 2011. The increase in ending inventory per square foot relative to the increase in sales per square foot is primarily due to Rack's growth.

GROSS PROFIT – 2011 VS 2010 

Retail gross profit increased $501 in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to higher sales and merchandise margin, partially offset by increases in occupancy costs for stores opened during both 2011 and 2010. Our gross profit rate improved 54 basis points compared with 2010 primarily due to leveraging buying and occupancy costs on higher net sales. Our increase in ending inventory per square foot of 13.3% on an 8.5% increase in sales per square foot is a result of our growth initiatives including expansion of our Rack business. 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2012 VS 2011 

Our Retail selling, general and administrative expenses ("Retail SG&A") increased $359 in 2012 compared with 2011. This increase reflects the investments we made to improve the customer experience across all channels and specifically in our e-commerce business as we expanded our capabilities and increased the speed of fulfillment and delivery. The increase also reflected higher sales volume and the opening of 16 stores in 2012. Our Retail SG&A rate increased 18 basis points for 2012 compared with 2011 due to the increased investments, partially offset by leverage on increased sales.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2011 VS 2010 

Our Retail SG&A expenses increased $395 in 2011 compared with 2010. This increase reflects initiatives to improve the shopping experience across all channels and specifically to grow our e-commerce business. The increase was also due in part to higher sales volume and the opening of 22 stores in 2011. As a result, our Retail SG&A rate increased 84 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010. We continued to leverage SG&A expense in our stores, with an improvement of approximately 35 basis points in 2011, compared with 2010.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Credit Segment

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe that owning all aspects of our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating our rewards program with our retail stores and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders, and we believe the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program helps drive sales in our Retail segment. Our Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only in our Nordstrom full-line and Rack stores and on our website ("inside volume"), while our Nordstrom VISA cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom ("outside volume"). Cardholders participate in the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards program through which customers accumulate points based on their level of spending. Upon reaching a certain threshold, customers receive Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our full-line stores, at Nordstrom Rack and online. Fashion Rewards customers receive a credit for complimentary alterations and a personal triple points day, in addition to early access to sales events. With increased spending, they can receive additional amounts of these benefits as well as access to exclusive fashion and shopping events.

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below, which represents the estimated costs that would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards.

Interest expense is assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the amount of estimated debt and equity needed to fund our credit card receivables. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. As such, we believe a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity, as represented by the average credit card receivable investment metric below, is appropriate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]1 Assumes 80% of accounts receivable is funded with debt.

2 Net of tax, calculated as a percentage of our average credit card receivable investment.

20
Credit Card Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees are assessed when a credit card account becomes delinquent. We consider an account delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the payment due date.

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2012 VS 2011 

Credit card revenues increased $6 in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to an extra week (the 53rd week) of revenue in 2012 as a result of our 4-5-4 retail reporting calendar. The increase is also due to growth in total volume that was offset by continued improvements in customer payment rates. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2012 was $2,076, an increase of $29, or 1.4%, from 2011. 

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2011 VS 2010 

Credit card revenues decreased $10 in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to a decrease in finance charge revenue resulting from continued improvements in customer payment rates that drove lower finance charge yields and slightly lower receivables. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2011 was $2,047, a decrease of $41, or 1.9%, from 2010. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interchange revenue due to increased use of our Nordstrom VISA credit cards at third parties.

Credit Segment Interest Expense

Interest expense increased to $26 in 2012 from $13 in 2011 and $21 in 2010 primarily due to higher average interest rates applicable to the Credit segment.

Credit Segment Cost of Sales and Related Buying and Occupancy Costs

COST OF SALES AND RELATED BUYING AND OCCUPANCY COSTS – 2012 VS 2011 

Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs, which include the estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that we expect to issue and ultimately be redeemed and complimentary alterations under our Fashion Rewards program, increased to $114 in 2012 compared with $75 in 2011. The increase was due to enhancements to our Fashion Rewards program and increases in Nordstrom credit and debit card volumes of 14.2%. We provide the Fashion Rewards benefits to our members, as participation in the program enhances customer loyalty and drives incremental sales in our stores and online.

COST OF SALES AND RELATED BUYING AND OCCUPANCY COSTS – 2011 VS 2010 

Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs increased to $75 in 2011 compared with $66 in 2010. The increase was due to additional expenses related to the Fashion Rewards program as a result of a 13.3% increase in volume on Nordstrom credit and debit cards and increased utilization of program benefits.

Credit Segment Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2012 VS 2011 

Total Credit SG&A decreased $24 in 2012 compared with 2011, due to lower bad debt expense, partially offset by increases in operational and marketing expenses. The decrease in bad debt expense reflects continued improvement in our portfolio delinquencies and write-off results, which are further discussed below. The increase in operational and marketing expenses was primarily driven by enhancements in our Fashion Rewards benefits. 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2011 VS 2010 

Total Credit SG&A decreased $44 in 2011 compared with 2010, due primarily to lower bad debt expense. The decrease in bad debt expense reflected continued improvement in our portfolio trends, the overall performance of our credit portfolio and economic trends. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends

The following table illustrates activity in the allowance for credit losses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CREDIT TRENDS

During 2012, our delinquency and net write-off results continued the improvements that began in 2010. Net write-offs in 2012 were $86, a significant improvement over 2011 of $131 and 2010 of $194. As delinquencies improved in both 2012 and 2011, and combined with the net write-off results, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $30 in both 2012 and 2011.

CREDIT QUALITY

The quality of our credit card receivables at any time reflects, among other factors, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our cardholders and the success of our account management and collection activities. In general, credit quality tends to decline, and the risk of credit losses tends to increase, during periods of deteriorating economic conditions. Through our underwriting and risk management standards and practices, we seek to maintain a high-quality cardholder portfolio, thereby mitigating our exposure to credit losses. As of February 2, 2013, 78.3% of our credit card receivables were from cardholders with FICO scores of 660 or above (generally considered "prime" according to industry standards) compared with 78.1% as of January 28, 2012.

Intercompany Merchant Fees

Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards in our Nordstrom stores and online. In 2012, these fees increased to $89 or 4.3% of average credit card receivables from $71 or 3.5% in 2011. This was primarily driven by the increased use of our credit and debit cards in store and online, as reflected by an increase in inside volume as a percent of total volume from 46.7% in 2011 to 51.0% in 2012.

Total Company Results

Interest Expense, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2012 VS 2011 

Interest expense, net increased $30 in 2012 compared with 2011 due to higher average interest rates and higher average debt balances.

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2011 VS 2010 

Interest expense, net increased $3 in 2011 compared with 2010 due to higher debt balances, partially offset by lower average interest rates.

22
Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate for 2012, 2011 and 2010:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INCOME TAX EXPENSE 

The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2012 compared with 2011 and the increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to the impact of non-taxable HauteLook acquisition-related expenses in 2011, including a goodwill impairment.

Fourth Quarter Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nordstrom's fourth quarter performance was consistent with the strong trends the company experienced throughout 2012. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $284, or $1.40 per diluted share, compared with $236, or $1.11 per diluted share, in 2011. The 53rd week contributed approximately $0.04 to earnings per diluted share in 2012.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
NET SALES

The total net sales increase for the fourth quarter of 13.5% was driven by the same-store sales increase of 6.3% and the impact of the 53rd week, which contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales.

Nordstrom net sales for the fourth quarter of 2012 increased $273, or 10.5% compared with the same period in 2011, with an increase in same-store sales of 6.1%. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price of our merchandise increased for the fourth quarter of 2012, compared with the same period last year. Category highlights for the quarter were Men's Apparel, Cosmetics, Kids' Apparel and Women's Apparel.

Full-line net sales for the quarter increased $147, or 6.6% compared with the same period in 2011, with an increase in same-store sales of 2.2%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for the quarter were the South and Midwest. Direct increased same-store sales 31% in the fourth quarter on top of last year's 35% increase for the same period. Direct sales growth continues to outpace the overall Company, reflecting ongoing initiatives to improve the customer experience online. 

Nordstrom Rack net sales for the quarter increased $131, or 23%, primarily from opening 15 new Rack stores in 2012 and 18 in 2011, while same-store sales increased 7.1% compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. Both the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise and the number of items sold increased for the quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year. Men's Apparel and Shoes were the leading categories for Nordstrom Rack.

GROSS PROFIT

Our total company gross profit rate was flat compared with the same period in the prior year. Markdown improvements were offset by higher expenses associated with our enhanced Fashion Rewards program, which generated incremental sales and attracted new members. Our ending inventory per square foot increased 15.8% on an 11.1% increase in sales per square foot compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase in ending inventory per square foot relative to the increase in sales per square foot is primarily due to our increased investment in pack and hold inventory associated with Rack's growth.

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business increased $94 compared with last year's fourth quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to higher sales volume and the opening of 16 new stores since the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase also reflected our initiatives to improve the customer experience across all channels, including higher planned fulfillment expenses. Our Retail SG&A rate decreased 45 basis points, due to leverage on increased sales, partially offset by increases in fulfillment costs associated with improving the speed of delivery for shipped sales. 

In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment were $53, down from $58 in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower bad debt expense resulting from continued improvements in delinquencies and write-off results within our portfolio.

For further information on our quarterly results in 2012 and 2011, refer to Note 17: Selected Quarterly Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

24
2013 Outlook

Our expectations for 2013, which are shown in comparison to the 53-week fiscal 2012 where applicable, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Beginning in 2013, HauteLook will be included in same-store sales. 2013 same-store sales are compared with the first 52 weeks of 2012.

2 Includes both our Retail gross profit and the cost of our loyalty program, which is recorded in our Credit segment, as a percentage of net sales.

3 This outlook does not include the impact of any future share repurchases.

To date in 2013, we have opened two Nordstrom Rack stores. We plan to open more than 20 Nordstrom Rack stores (of which 16 have been formally announced) and relocate one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack stores during 2013. The announced store openings will increase our retail square footage by approximately 2.2%.

Included in our guidance are upfront infrastructure expenses for Canada, as well as organizational and incremental pre-opening expenses related to Rack's store expansion. In 2013, we expect these costs to be approximately $20 to $25. 

We expect our gross profit rate to decrease approximately 10 to 30 basis points. The decrease is expected as a result of an increasing mix of Nordstrom Rack stores and continued growth in our Fashion Rewards program.

The decrease in our Retail SG&A rate relates to our expectation of leverage on higher sales. 

For our Credit segment, we expect credit card revenues to remain relatively consistent with 2012 and Credit SG&A expenses to increase $20 to $30 when compared with 2012 results given the $30 reduction in the allowance for credit losses recognized in 2012, with none expected for 2013. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We define ROIC as follows:

ROIC = Net Operating Profit After Taxes

 Average Invested Capital

For the 12 fiscal months ended February 2, 2013, our ROIC increased to 13.9% compared with 13.3% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2012. Our ROIC increased compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in our earnings before interest and income tax expense. 

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared with return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders' return over the long term. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which increased to 8.9% from 8.7% for the 12 fiscal months ended February 2, 2013, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2012. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 Based upon the trailing 12-month average. 

4 Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities. 

5 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12-months rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1. 

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of February 2, 2013, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $1,285, operating cash flows of $1,110, available credit facilities of $900 and potential future borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,110 in 2012 and $1,177 in 2011. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2012 compared with 2011, with higher earnings offset by increased inventory purchases in conjunction with growth in sales and fewer property incentives received from developers.

In 2013, we expect our operating cash flows to increase as a result of higher sales and earnings with less growth in inventory.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $369 in 2012 and $728 in 2011. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash accumulated for debt maturities and changes in credit card receivables associated with cardholder purchases outside of Nordstrom using our Nordstrom VISA credit cards.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,423, with $513 in 2012, $511 in 2011 and $399 in 2010. Capital expenditures included investments in new stores, relocations and remodels and information technology improvements.

Capital expenditures remained flat in 2012 compared with 2011 as increased spending on technology, e-commerce and remodels was offset by a decrease in new stores. The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We relocated three Nordstrom Rack stores in 2012, compared with two Nordstrom Rack stores in 2011. Our 2012 store openings and relocations increased our square footage by 2.2%.

To date in 2013, we have opened two Nordstrom Rack stores. We plan to open more than 20 Nordstrom Rack stores (of which 16 have been formally announced) and relocate one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack stores during 2013. The announced store openings will increase our retail square footage by approximately 2.2%.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
We received property incentives from our developers of $58 in 2012, $78 in 2011 and $95 in 2010. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

We expect to significantly increase our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years to approximately $3,700, compared with $1,900 over the previous five years. We plan to spend approximately $750 to $790 in 2013 compared with $455 in 2012, with the increase due to new Rack and full-line stores, improvements to e-commerce delivery and fulfillment initiatives and our planned Manhattan store development. Over these next five years, we expect that approximately 55% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, relocations, remodels and other with an additional 20% for entry into Canada and Manhattan, and 25% for e-commerce and information technology. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.

CHANGE IN RESTRICTED CASH

In connection with the April 2012 maturity of our Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes ("the Notes") totaling $500, we began making required monthly cash deposits of $100 into a restricted account in December 2011 until we accumulated $500 by April 2012 to retire the Notes. As of January 28, 2012, we had accumulated $200, which was recorded as cash paid into our restricted cash account and included in our consolidated balance sheet in prepaid expenses and other in 2011. During the first quarter of 2012, the net amount withdrawn from restricted cash of $200 was recorded as cash received from investing activities.

CHANGE IN CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES ORIGINATED AT THIRD PARTIES

The Nordstrom VISA credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Fashion Rewards program. In 2012, the change in credit card receivables from customers' third-party purchases using their Nordstrom VISA credit cards increased to $42, compared with $7 in 2011, as a result of increased volume partially offset by improved payment rates.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $1,333 in 2012 compared with $78 in 2011. Our financing activities include our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends.

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY

We retired our $500 securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes upon maturity in April 2012 using accumulated restricted cash described in Investing Activities above. We had no short-term borrowings and no amounts outstanding on our revolving line of credit during the year.

During 2011, we issued $500 of senior unsecured notes at 4.00%, due October 2021. After deducting the original issue discount of $1, net proceeds from the offering were $499. Additionally, we issued $325 Series 2011-1 Class A Notes at 2.28%, due October 2016. 

Also during 2011, we received proceeds of $72 from the sale of our interest rate swap agreements (collectively, the "swap") with a $650 notional amount maturing in 2018. Under the swap, we received a fixed rate of 6.25% and paid a variable rate based on one-month LIBOR plus a margin of 2.9%. As of February 2, 2013, the accumulated adjustment to our long-term debt was $60, which will be amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information related to our swap.

SHARE REPURCHASES

In 2012, we completed the $750 repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in May 2011. In February 2012, our Board of Directors authorized another program (the "2012 Program"), which allows for the repurchase of up to $800 of our common stock through February 1, 2014. As of February 2, 2013, there was $393 in remaining share repurchase capacity under the 2012 Program. During 2012, we repurchased 14.0 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $717. Subsequent to year-end, in February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $800 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2015, in addition to the remaining amount available for repurchase under the 2012 program. The actual number and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules. 

28
DIVIDENDS

In 2012, we paid dividends of $220, or $1.08 per share, compared with $197, or $0.92 per share, in 2011. During the first quarter of 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.23 per share to $0.27 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. We target a 25% to 30% dividend payout ratio, which is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2013, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share, increased from $0.27 per share in 2012.

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We define Free Cash Flow as:

Free Cash Flow = Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities – Capital Expenditures – Cash Dividends Paid +/– Change in Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties +/– Change in Cash Book Overdrafts

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is best analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:

•Free Cash Flow does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs; and

•Other companies in our industry may calculate Free Cash Flow differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1,110 and $1,177 for the years ended February 2, 2013 and January 28, 2012. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of February 2, 2013, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $800. Of the total capacity, we had $600 under our commercial paper program, which is backed by our unsecured revolving credit facility ("revolver") that expires in June 2016, and $200 under our 2007-A Variable Funding Note ("2007-A VFN") that expires in January 2014. 

Under the terms of our $600 revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for our commercial paper program. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $100, to a total of $700, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders. During 2012, we had no borrowings under our revolver.

Our $600 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. During 2012, we had no issuances under our commercial paper program.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
The 2007-A VFN has a capacity of $200 and is backed by all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Borrowings under the 2007-A VFN incur interest based upon one-month LIBOR plus 35 basis points. We pay a commitment fee for the facility based on the size of the commitment. During 2012, we had no borrowings against this facility.

Our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, also maintains a variable funding facility with a short-term credit capacity of $100. This facility is backed by the remaining 10% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables and is available, if needed, to provide liquidity support to Nordstrom fsb. Borrowings under the facility incur interest at an agreed upon rate with investors in the facility. During 2012, Nordstrom fsb had no borrowings against this facility.

We have a registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission using a “shelf” registration process. Under this shelf registration process, we may offer and sell, from time to time, any combination of the securities described in a prospectus to the registration statement, including registered debt, provided we maintain Well-known Seasoned Issuer (WKSI) status.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of February 2, 2013, we have $8 available under a trade letter of credit, with $2 outstanding. We also hold a $15 standby letter of credit, with $1 outstanding under this facility at the end of the year.

Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our $600 revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to LIBOR and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower cost of capital under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher cost of capital under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The revolver requires that we maintain a leverage ratio, defined as Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent ("EBITDAR"), of less than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR).

As of February 2, 2013 and January 28, 2012, we were in compliance with this covenant. We will continue to monitor this covenant to ensure that we make any necessary adjustments to our plans, and we believe that we will remain in compliance with this covenant during 2013.

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of February 2, 2013, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1 compared with 2.4 as of January 28, 2012. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in debt and an increase in earnings before interest and income taxes for the 12 months ended February 2, 2013, compared with the 12 months ended January 28, 2012. 

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:

•Adjusted Debt is not exact, but rather our best estimate of the total company debt we would hold if we had purchased the property and issued debt associated with our operating leases;

•EBITDAR does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, including leases, or the cash requirements necessary to pay interest and principal on our debt; and

•Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.3 and 5.3 for 2012 and 2011. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate Adjusted Debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of February 2, 2013. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,555 as of February 2, 2013, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $74 in 2012, $69 in 2011 and $65 in 2010. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as "percentage rent." Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $14 in 2012, $12 in 2011 and $9 in 2010.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers' compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $12, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We enter into commitments to extend credit to customers for use at third parties through our Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The unused credit card capacity available to our customers represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of February 2, 2013, this unfunded commitment was $15,807.

We had no other material off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, during 2012.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in our credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date, including uncollectible finance charges and fees. We estimate such credit losses based on several factors, including historical aging and delinquency trends, write-off experience, portfolio concentration and risk metrics and general economic conditions.

We believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card receivables under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above could materially change these expectations. During 2012, our delinquency and net write-off results continued to improve. As a result, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $30 during 2012, from $115 to $85, and by $30 during 2011, from $145 to $115. A 10% change in our allowance for credit losses would have affected net earnings by $5 for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013.

32
Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale, net of an allowance for estimated sales returns. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores, website and catalog, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $7 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 2, 2013.

Inventory

Our merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had no material impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 2, 2013.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment, or when circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment. To assess the fair value of our HauteLook goodwill, we utilize both an income approach and a market approach. To determine the fair value of goodwill related to nordstrom.com and Jeffrey, we utilize a market approach. We compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. Based on the results of our 2012 review, we did not recognize an impairment loss for goodwill. Based on the results of our 2011 review, we recognized an impairment charge of $25 related to our HauteLook goodwill. A 10% change in the fair value of any of our reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013.

Income Taxes

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available to us. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $15 as of February 2, 2013 and $21 as of January 28, 2012.

Unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2012 or 2011.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect any of these pronouncements to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.