MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, and related financial information, are presented in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to assist in the evaluation of BB&T’s 2009 performance.  

Reclassifications  

In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the 2009 presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income.  

Mergers and Acquisitions Completed During 2009  

On August 14, 2009, BB&T acquired certain assets and assumed all of the deposits and certain other liabilities of Colonial, headquartered in Montgomery, Ala., from the FDIC. Colonial operated 357 banking offices in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Texas and Nevada with approximately $19 billion in deposits at the date of acquisition. In addition to the acquisition noted above, BB&T acquired one insurance agency and three nonbank financial services companies during 2009. All of the nonbank acquisitions during 2009 were immaterial in relation to the consolidated results of BB&T. See Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding mergers and acquisitions.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. BB&T’s financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in BB&T’s consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include BB&T’s accounting for the allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit obligations associated with BB&T’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, and income taxes. Understanding BB&T’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding BB&T’s consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T’s significant accounting policies and changes in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

The following is a summary of BB&T’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T’s Board of Directors on a periodic basis.  

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that represent management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that are inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, expected cash flows on purchased loans, current assessment of problem loan and lease administration, the results of regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio. Also included in management’s estimates for loan and lease losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain. These events may include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical  

37  

Table of Contents 

 areas and industries in which BB&T conducts business. The methodology used to determine an estimate for the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for loans and leases adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in the “Overview and Description of Business—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.”  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

A significant portion of BB&T’s assets and certain liabilities are financial instruments carried at fair value. This includes securities available for sale, trading securities, derivatives, certain loans held for sale, residential mortgage servicing rights, certain short-term borrowings and venture capital investments. At December 31, 2009, the percentage of total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value was 23.6% and less than 1%, respectively. The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for similar instruments. At December 31, 2009, 5.4% of assets measured at fair value were based on significant unobservable inputs. This is approximately 1% of BB&T’s total assets. See Note 18 “Fair Value Disclosures” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments.  

Securities  

The fair values for available-for-sale and trading securities are generally based upon quoted market prices or observable market prices for similar instruments. These values take into account recent market activity as well as other market observable data such as interest rate, spread and prepayment information. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment. As of December 31, 2009, BB&T had approximately $1.0 billion of available-for-sale and trading securities, which is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable inputs. This total includes $668 million of non-agency mortgage backed securities that are covered by a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC and $219 million of auction-rate securities. BB&T conducts periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each available-for-sale security that has an unrealized loss for other-than-temporary impairment. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. The primary factors BB&T considers in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary are the financial condition and near–term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence the operations of the issuer and BB&T’s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these debt securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and related mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). BB&T has two classes of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. Residential MSRs are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income each period. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value, due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions, of its residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using an option adjusted spread (“OAS”) valuation model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. When available, fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to observable market data and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the  

38  

Table of Contents 

 value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset amortization is updated based on actual results and updated projections. Please refer to Note 8 “Loan Servicing” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.  

Loans Held for Sale  

BB&T originates certain mortgage loans to be sold to investors. The majority of these loans are carried at fair value upon the election of the Fair Value Option. For these loans, the fair value is primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of mortgage banking income while mortgage loan origination costs for loans held for sale for which the Corporation elected the Fair Value Option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. The changes in fair value of these assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans.  

Derivatives  

BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable data. BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee.  

Venture Capital Investments  

BB&T has venture capital investments that are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and therefore management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December 31, 2009, BB&T had $281 million of venture capital investments, which is less than 1% of total assets.  

Intangible Assets  

BB&T’s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which often involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, all of which are inherently subjective. The amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. Acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair value of net assets acquired compared to their carrying value. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of BB&T’s impairment testing process. The major assumptions used in the impairment testing process include the estimated future cash flows of each business unit and discount rates. Discount rates are unique to each business unit and are based upon the cost of capital specific to the industry in which the business unit operates. Management evaluated the sensitivity of the significant assumptions in its impairment analysis including consideration of a 10% change in estimated future cash flows or the discount rate for each reporting unit. After giving appropriate consideration to all available information, management determined that no impairment of goodwill would have been incurred. However, as a result of the  

39  

Table of Contents 

 challenging economic environment, the excess of the fair value over the carrying value of several reporting units has narrowed. A continuing period of depressed market conditions, or further market deterioration, may result in impairment of goodwill in the future.  

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  

BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees. The calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves. These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond price and yield data collected as of the plan’s measurement date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty years. Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, apportioned into distinct maturity groups. For durations where no bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships from observable data in similar markets. These indices and hypothetical curves give only an indication of the appropriate discount rate because the cash flows of the bonds comprising the indices and curves do not match the projected benefit payment stream of the plan precisely. For this reason, we also consider the individual characteristics of the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate. Management evaluated the sensitivity changes in the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension expense for 2010. A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in an additional pension expense of approximately $9 million for 2010. Based on the balance of plan assets on December 31, 2009, a decrease of one percent in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $22 million in pension expense for 2010. Please refer to Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for disclosures related to BB&T’s benefit plans.  

Income Taxes  

The calculation of BB&T’s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the Company’s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation. For tax positions that are uncertain in nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. For tax positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company’s overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary.  

Analysis of Financial Condition  

A summary of the more significant fluctuations in balance sheet accounts is presented below.  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, BB&T’s average assets totaled $155.2 billion, an increase of $18.3 billion, or 13.4%, compared to the 2008 average of $136.9 billion, primarily reflecting growth in average loans and leases and investment securities. Average loans and leases for 2009 were up $7.0 billion, or 7.3%, from 2008 and average investment securities increased $7.8 billion, or 31.8%, compared to 2008. The growth in average loans and leases was led by growth in average commercial loans and leases, which increased $2.5 billion, or 5.3%, and growth in average loans originated by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries, which increased $1.6 billion, or 29.6%. BB&T also added $3.1 billion in average covered loans in the Colonial acquisition. Total earning assets averaged $135.7 billion in 2009, an increase of $14.8 billion, or 12.3%, compared to 2008. These averages and growth rates include the effects of acquisitions.  

BB&T’s average deposits totaled $102.4 billion, reflecting growth of $13.6 billion, or 15.3%, compared to 2008. The growth in average deposits includes growth of 17.7% from client sources and a decline of 4.6% in wholesale deposit products. The favorable change was due to the additional deposits assumed in the Colonial acquisition, which contributed approximately $6.5 billion of the growth in average client deposits, as well as strong internal growth.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Short-term borrowings include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, short-term bank notes, treasury tax and loan deposit notes payable and other short-term borrowings. Average short-term borrowings totaled $12.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $1.9 billion, or 18.1%, from 2008. BB&T also has used long-term debt for a significant portion of its funding needs. Long-term debt includes Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings by Branch Bank, capital securities issued by unconsolidated trusts and senior and subordinated debt issued by the Corporation and Branch Bank. Average long-term debt totaled $19.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $754 million, or 3.8%, compared to 2008.  

The compound annual rate of growth in average total assets for the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, was 10.0%. Over the same five-year period, average loans and leases increased at a compound annual rate of 9.1%, average securities increased at a compound annual rate of 12.1%, and average deposits grew at a compound annual rate of 9.6%. These balance sheet growth rates include the effect of acquisitions, as well as internal growth.  

For more detailed discussions concerning the causes of these fluctuations, please refer to the sections that follow.  

Securities  

The securities portfolio provides earnings and liquidity, and is managed as part of the overall asset and liability management process to optimize net interest income and reduce exposure to interest rate risk. Management has historically emphasized investments with duration of five years or less to provide flexibility in managing the balance sheet in changing interest rate environments. Total securities increased 4.0% from year-end 2008 to year-end 2009, to a total of $34.5 billion at December 31, 2009.  

As of December 31, 2009, the total securities portfolio included $636 million in trading securities and $33.9 billion of available-for-sale securities. The available-for-sale portfolio comprised 98.2% of total securities at December 31, 2009. Management believes that the high concentration of securities in the available-for-sale portfolio allows flexibility in the management of the overall investment portfolio, consistent with the objectives of optimizing profitability, mitigating interest rate risk, supporting capital and providing liquidity.  

The following table provides information regarding the composition of BB&T’s securities portfolio for the years presented:  

Table 8  

Composition of Securities Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total securities available for sale increased $10.4 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily as a result of deploying the additional capital invested by the U.S Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2008 as part of the Capital Purchase Program. While BB&T repaid the capital invested by the U.S. Treasury in the second quarter of 2009,  

41  

Table of Contents 

 the Company issued other forms of capital and has retained a higher level of securities. Currently, as a result of the low interest-rate environment, management is not reinvesting all cash flows from the securities portfolio and expects the size of the portfolio as a percentage of total assets to decline in the future.  

Mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities comprised 78.7% of the total available-for-sale securities portfolio at year-end 2009. The duration of the mortgage-backed securities was 3.37 years at December 31, 2009 compared to 1.60 years at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, the available-for-sale securities portfolio also includes $1.2 billion of securities that were acquired from the FDIC as part of the Colonial transaction. These securities are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements and include $896 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and $305 million of municipal securities. The duration of the entire available-for-sale portfolio at December 31, 2009 was 4.40 years compared to 2.77 years at December 31, 2008. The duration of the securities portfolio excludes equity securities, auction rate securities, and re-remic non-agency mortgage-backed securities that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition.  

BB&T sold a total of $17.1 billion in available-for-sale securities during 2009, including $2.4 billion of securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition, which produced net securities gains of $240 million, none of which related to the sales from the Colonial acquisition. In addition, BB&T recognized in net income $41 million in charges for other-than-temporary impairment related to certain debt and equity securities. During the first quarter of 2009, BB&T took advantage of an opportunity to shorten the duration of its securities portfolio and realize gains in certain mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored entities. While these mortgage-backed securities had higher yields, they had a longer duration and government efforts to drive down mortgage rates increased the risk of early prepayment. The majority of the proceeds from these sales were reinvested in similar securities with shorter durations early in the second quarter of 2009. During 2008, BB&T sold approximately $21.0 billion of available-for-sale securities and realized net gains totaling $211 million. In addition, BB&T recorded $104 million of other-than-temporary impairments related to certain debt and equity securities. No other-than-temporary impairments were recorded during 2007.  

The fair value of the available-for-sale portfolio at year-end 2009 was $363 million lower than the amortized cost of these securities. At December 31, 2009, BB&T’s available-for-sale portfolio had net unrealized losses, net of deferred income taxes, of $225 million, which are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity. At December 31, 2008, the available-for-sale portfolio had net unrealized losses of $517 million, or $324 million, net of deferred income taxes. The increase in the fair value of the securities available-for-sale portfolio during 2009 was largely a result of recoveries in the value of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities, as investor concerns about real estate related assets and the overall state of the economy abated to some degree. Increases in the values of these portfolios were partially offset by declines in the value of government-sponsored entity securities and mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities due to movements in interest rates and the realization of $240 million of net gains on sales of securities.  

On December 31, 2009, BB&T held certain investment securities having continuous unrealized losses for more than 12 months. As of December 31, 2009, the unrealized losses on these securities totaled $311 million. All of these losses were in non-agency mortgage-backed and municipal securities. At December 31, 2009, all of the available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position, excluding those covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, were investment grade with the exception of (a) one auction rate security with a book value of $2 million; (b) two municipal bonds with a book value of $8 million; (c) eleven non-agency mortgage-backed securities with a book value of $859 million and (d) one non-agency commercial mortgage-backed security with a book value of $25 million. All of the non-investment grade securities referenced above were initially investment grade and have been downgraded since purchase. BB&T evaluated all of its debt securities for credit impairment. Based on its evaluation at December 31, 2009, BB&T determined that certain of the non-investment grade non-agency mortgage-backed securities had credit losses evident and recognized other-than-temporary impairments related to these securities. Approximately $1 million of the decline in fair value related to credit losses and was recognized in net income. BB&T’s evaluation of the other debt securities with continuous unrealized losses indicated that there were no credit losses evident. Furthermore, BB&T does not intend to sell and determined that it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell these debt securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis. See the “Summary Analysis Supporting Conclusions” section included in Note 3 “Securities” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s evaluation of securities for other-than-temporary impairment.  

42  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s securities portfolio at December 31, 2009, segregated by major category with ranges of maturities and average yields disclosed.  

Table 9  

Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields on tax-exempt securities are calculated on a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%. Yields for available-for-sale securities are calculated based on the amortized cost of the securities.  

 (2)   For purposes of the maturity table, mortgage-backed securities, which are not due at a single maturity date, have been included in maturity groupings based on the contractual maturity. The expected life of mortgage- backed securities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay the underlying mortgage loans with or without call or prepayment penalties.  

43  

Table of Contents 

 (3)   Excludes the effect of pay-fixed swaps hedging municipal securities.  

 (4)   Trading securities and securities with no stated maturity include equity investments that totaled $864 million, certain municipal investments that totaled $16 million and trading securities that totaled $636 million.  

 (5)   Includes securities available-for-sale and trading securities of $33.9 billion and $636 million, respectively.  

The fully taxable equivalent (“FTE”) yield on the total securities portfolio was 4.30% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 5.05% for the prior year. The yield on mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities decreased from 4.94% to 4.14%, the FTE yield on state and municipal securities decreased from 6.33% last year to 5.67% in the current year and the yield on U.S. government-sponsored entity securities decreased from 4.86% in 2008 to 3.86% in 2009. The decrease in the annualized FTE yield on the average securities portfolio was primarily the result of reinvesting the sales from the first quarter of 2009 into shorter duration securities. Partially offsetting these declines, the FTE yield benefited from the addition of the securities acquired in the Colonial transaction.  

Loans and Leases  

BB&T emphasizes commercial lending to small and medium-sized businesses, consumer lending, mortgage lending and specialized lending with an overall goal of maximizing the profitability of the loan portfolio while maintaining strong asset quality. The various categories of loan products offered by BB&T are discussed under “Lending Activities” in the “Overview and Description of Business” section herein. BB&T is a full-service lender with approximately one-half of its loan portfolio to businesses and one-half to individual consumers. BB&T’s loan portfolio, excluding loans held for sale, increased $6.4 billion, or 6.6%, compared to year-end 2008. This increase includes $8.0 billion in covered loans acquired as part of the Colonial transaction. All covered loans are covered by one of the FDIC loss share agreements as further discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Average total loans and leases for 2009 increased $7.0 billion, or 7.3%, compared to 2008. The growth in the average loan portfolio included $3.2 billion of average loans as a result of the Colonial acquisition during 2009.  

The following table presents BB&T’s average loans for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, segregated by major category:  

Table 10  

Composition of Average Loans and Leases  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average commercial loans and leases increased $2.5 billion, or 5.3%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. Overall, the commercial loan and lease portfolio showed moderate growth during 2009. The mix of the commercial loan portfolio has shifted somewhat, as commercial real estate lending has slowed due to a slower real estate market.  

44  

Table of Contents 

 In addition, management has intentionally lowered its exposure to real estate lending over the past several years, which has resulted in lower balances of commercial real estate loans. This has been offset by an increased focus on commercial and industrial loans. BB&T experienced stronger trends in commercial and industrial lending in 2009 primarily in lending relationships with healthcare and governmental entities, due to BB&T’s strong capital position, credit ratings and willingness to extend credit.  

Average direct retail loans declined 5.5% in 2009 due to continuing difficulties in the residential real estate market, which decreased demand for home equity loan products. Average sales finance loans and average revolving credit reflected growth rates of 2.8% and 11.5% during 2009, respectively. BB&T concentrates its efforts on the highest quality borrowers in both of these product markets.  

Average mortgage loans held for investment decreased $1.4 billion, or 8.1%, compared to 2008. Management views mortgage loans as an integral part of BB&T’s relationship-based credit culture. BB&T is a large originator of residential mortgage loans, with 2009 originations of $28.2 billion. The vast majority of mortgage loans originated during 2009 were conforming mortgage loans that were either sold in the secondary market or held in the loans held for sale portfolio at year-end, which is the primary reason for the decline in mortgage loans held for investment. Average loans held for sale, which primarily consists of government-conforming mortgage loans, increased $1.5 billion, or 111.0% compared to 2008 as refinance activity significantly increased due to the historically low loan rates for mortgages.  

Average loans held by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries increased $1.6 billion, or 29.6%, compared to 2008. The growth in the specialized lending portfolio was primarily in insurance premium finance lending, equipment finance leases and automobile loans. This increase includes the acquisition of assets of an insurance premium finance business on February 2, 2009, which added approximately $715 million in loans.  

The average annualized FTE yield for 2009 for the total loan portfolio was 5.49% compared to 6.35% for the prior year. The 86 basis point decline in the FTE yield on the loan portfolio was primarily the result of the repricing of loans in response to the decreases in the prime lending rate and other indices, as well as a higher level of nonperforming loans in 2009 as compared to 2008. These declines were partially offset by wider loan spreads on new originations and the Colonial acquisition. The average prime rate in effect during 2009 and 2008 was 3.25% and 5.09%, respectively.  

Asset Quality and Credit Risk Management  

BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  

   ·    limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;  

   ·    establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  

   ·    careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks;  

   ·    ongoing servicing of individual loans and lending relationships;  

   ·    continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and  

   ·    periodically reevaluating the bank’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.  

BB&T’s lending strategy, which focuses on relationship-based lending within our markets and smaller individual loan balances, continues to produce credit quality that is better than its peer group of financial institutions. As measured by relative levels of nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, BB&T’s asset quality has remained significantly better than published industry averages.  

BB&T’s asset quality continued to deteriorate in 2009 as a result of challenges in the residential real estate markets and the economic recession. The largest concentration of credit issues continues to be in Georgia, Florida and metro Washington, D.C., which includes the surrounding suburbs. In addition, BB&T has experienced some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas.  

45  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes asset quality information for the past five years.  

Table 11  

Asset Quality  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Covered and other acquired loans are considered to be performing due to the application of the accretion method. Covered loans that are contractually past due are noted in the footnotes below.  

 (2)   Excludes foreclosed real estate totaling $160 million as of December 31, 2009 that is covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (3)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

 (4)   Excludes loans totaling $1.4 billion past due 90 days or more at December 31, 2009 that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (5)   Excludes loans totaling $391 million past due 30-89 days at December 31, 2009 that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Substantially all of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, whereby the FDIC reimburses BB&T for the majority of the losses incurred. In addition, all of the loans acquired were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date without regard to the loss sharing agreements. Loans were evaluated and assigned to loan pools based on common risk characteristics. The determination of the fair value of the loans resulted in a significant write-down in the carrying amount of the loans, which was assigned to an accretable or nonaccretable balance, with the accretable balance being recognized as interest income over the remaining term of the loan. In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, there was no allowance brought forward on any of the acquired loans, as the credit losses evident in the loans were included in the determination of the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date and are represented by the nonaccretable balance. The majority of the nonaccretable balance is expected to be received from the FDIC in connection with the loss share agreements and is recorded as a separate asset from the covered loans and reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result, all of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition were considered to be accruing loans as of the acquisition date. In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, covered loans that are contractually past due will continue to be reported as past due and still accruing based on the number of days past due. Because of the significant difference in the accounting for the covered loans and the loss share agreements with the FDIC, management believes that asset quality measures excluding the covered loans are generally more meaningful. Therefore, management has presented asset quality measures in Table 11 that both include and exclude the covered loans and foreclosed property.  

Nonperforming assets consist of foreclosed real estate, repossessions, nonaccrual loans and certain restructured loans, which totaled $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 (or $4.2 billion excluding covered foreclosed property), compared to $2.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase in nonperforming assets included an increase of $1.3 billion in nonperforming loans and $1.1 billion in foreclosed assets, including $160 million in foreclosed property from the Colonial acquisition that is covered by the FDIC loss share agreements. Housing related projects accounted for 84% (52% for land/lots and 32% for 1-4 family homes) of total foreclosed property at December 31, 2009. The increase in foreclosed properties was dispersed throughout BB&T’s markets, with the largest increases occurring in Georgia, North Carolina, and Florida. As a percentage of loans and leases plus foreclosed property, nonperforming assets were 4.07% at December 31, 2009 (or 4.24% excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) compared with 2.04% at December 31, 2008.  

Troubled debt restructurings generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is expected to experience, financial difficulties in the near-term. As a result, BB&T will work with the borrower to prevent further difficulties, and ultimately to improve the likelihood of recovery on the loan. To facilitate this process, a concessionary modification that would not otherwise be considered may be granted resulting in classification as a troubled debt restructuring. Troubled debt restructurings can involve loans remaining on non-accrual, moving to non-accrual, or continuing on accruing status, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the borrower. Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on nonaccrual for a period of six months to demonstrate the borrower can meet the restructured terms. However, performance prior to the restructuring, or significant events that coincide with the restructuring, are considered in assessing whether the borrower can meet the new terms and may result in the loan being returned to accrual status after a shorter performance period. If the borrower’s ability to meet the revised payment schedule is not reasonably assured, the loan remains classified as a nonaccrual loan.  

The majority of BB&T’s loan modifications relate to commercial lending and involve extending the term of the loan. In these cases, BB&T does not typically lower the interest rate or forgive principal or interest as part of the loan modification. In addition, it is common for BB&T to obtain additional collateral or guarantor support when modifying a loan. At December 31, 2009, BB&T had $471 million in loans that were accruing interest under the terms of troubled debt restructurings. This amount consists of $308 million in commercial loans, $103 million in residential mortgage loans, $54 million in revolving credit loans and $6 million in direct retail loans. Nonaccrual restructured loans and leases are included in nonaccrual loans and leases in the accompanying tables. The amount of loan restructurings has increased during 2009, as BB&T continues to work with borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. As a result of continued economic stress, BB&T anticipates that it will have further increases in loan restructurings during 2010.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Early indicators of problem loans were relatively stable over the last several quarters of 2009 and have decreased significantly compared to the level at year-end 2008. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest, excluding Colonial loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, totaled $319 million at December 31, 2009, compared with $431 million at year-end 2008. Loans 30-89 days past due, excluding Colonial loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements totaled $1.7 billion at December 31, 2009, which was also a decline compared with $2.0 billion at year-end 2008.  

48  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes nonperforming assets and past due loans by loan type for the past three years.  

Table 12  

Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

49  

Table of Contents 

 (1)   Covered and other acquired loans are considered to be performing due to the application of the accretion method. Covered loans that are contractually past due are noted in the footnotes below.  

 (2)   Excludes foreclosed real estate totaling $160 million at December 31, 2009 that is covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (3)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, nonaccrual loans and leases as a percentage of total loans and leases was 2.56% as of December 31, 2009.  

 (4)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

 (5)   Excludes loans totaling $1.4 billion past due 90 days or more at December 31, 2009 that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (6)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases was 1.61% as of December 31, 2009.  

 (7)   Excludes loans totaling $391 million past due 30-89 days at December 31, 2009 that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (8)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, loans past due 30-89 days as a percentage of total loans and leases was 1.96% as of December 31, 2009.  

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments compose BB&T’s allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses totaled $2.7 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of 66.3% compared to $1.6 billion at the end of 2008. The allowance for loan and lease losses, as a percentage of loans and leases held for investment, was 2.51% at December 31, 2009 (or 2.72% excluding covered loans), compared to 1.62% at year-end 2008. The allowance for credit losses increased by $1.1 billion during 2009, primarily as a result of higher loss rates for residential real estate related lending, and their effect on the overall allowance model. The growth of $1.1 billion in the allowance for credit losses reflects migrations of loans to higher risk grades, with the most significant increases occurring in the single family residential, acquisition, development, and construction loan portfolio and the consumer real estate portfolio. Please refer to Note 5 “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures.  

Information relevant to BB&T’s allowance for loan and lease losses for the last five years is presented in the following tables. Table 13-1 is presented using regulatory classifications, which focuses on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the lines of business that generate the loans. Table 13-2 is presented based upon the lines of business, as discussed herein.  

Table 13-1  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

50  

Table of Contents 

 (1)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

 (2)   The net charge-off rate for 2009 was 1.79% excluding the effect of average loans covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

Table 13—2  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses by Lines of Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

51  

Table of Contents 

The following tables provide further details regarding BB&T’s commercial real estate lending, residential mortgage and consumer home equity portfolios as of December 31, 2009.  

Table 14-1  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

52  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1)   Commercial real estate loans (CRE) are defined as loans to finance non-owner occupied real property where the primary repayment source is the sale or rental/lease of the real property. Definition is based on internal classification. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2)   C&I loans secured by real property are excluded.  

The residential acquisition, development and construction (“ADC”) loan portfolio totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $2.2 billion from December 31, 2008. This portfolio remained under stress throughout 2009. The decline in the portfolio reflects management’s efforts to work through the problem credits in this portfolio. Nonaccrual ADC loans were $785 million at December 31, 2009, an increase of $285 million, compared to $500 million at December 31, 2008. As a percentage of loans, ADC nonaccruals were 13.63% at year-end 2009, compared to 6.27% at year-end 2008. The allowance for loan and lease losses that is assigned to the ADC portfolio was 14.1% as of December 31, 2009, compared to 7.7% as of year-end 2008. The gross charge-off rate for the ADC portfolio was 5.71% for 2009 compared to 1.83% for 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2009, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 7.40% compared to 6.35% for the third quarter of 2009.  

The other commercial real estate portfolio, which is largely office buildings, hotels, warehouses, apartments, rental houses, and shopping centers, totaled $12.5 billion at December 31, 2009. While this portfolio has experienced some deterioration, BB&T has not seen a dramatic increase in problem credits in this portfolio. The components of the portfolio that are experiencing the most stress relate to land development and hotel properties. As a percentage of loans, other commercial real estate nonaccruals were 2.70% at December 31, 2009, compared with .97% at December 31, 2008. The gross charge-off rate for the other commercial real estate portfolio was .76% in 2009 compared to .25% for 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2009, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 1.21% compared to 1.00% for the third quarter of 2009.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Table 14-2  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Residential Mortgage Portfolio (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1)   Excludes mortgage loans held for sale, covered loans, mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase and in process items.  

 (2)   Includes $365 million in loans originated by Lendmark Financial Services, which are disclosed as a part of the specialized lending category.  

 (3)   Weighted based on outstanding balance.  

The residential mortgage loan portfolio, as presented in Table 14-2, totaled $15.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, a decrease of $1.7 billion from December 31, 2008. As a percentage of loans, residential mortgage loan nonaccruals were 4.94% at December 31, 2009, compared with 2.22% at December 31, 2008. The gross charge-off rate for the residential mortgage loan portfolio was 1.79% in 2009 compared to .57% for 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2009, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 2.00% compared to 2.00% for the third quarter of 2009. The residential mortgage problem credits began to stabilize somewhat in the fourth quarter of 2009, as delinquencies came down and loss rates remained stable.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Table 14-3  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Direct Retail 1-4 Family and Lot/Land Real Estate Portfolio (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1)   Direct retail 1-4 family and lot/land real estate loans are originated through the BB&T branching network. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2)   Home equity lines without an outstanding balance are excluded from this calculation.  

 (3)   Based on number of accounts.  

The direct retail consumer real estate loan portfolio, as presented in Table 14-3, totaled $13.4 billion as of December 31, 2009, a decrease of $1.0 billion from December 31, 2008. This portfolio comprises of residential lot/land loans, home equity loans and home equity lines, which are primarily originated through the branch network. As a percentage of loans, direct retail consumer real estate nonaccruals were 1.44% at December 31, 2009, compared to .60% at December 31, 2008. The gross charge-off rate for the direct retail consumer real estate loan portfolio was 2.19% in 2009 compared to .71% for 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2009, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 2.01% compared to 1.63% for the third quarter of 2009. The increase in the gross charge-off rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the third quarter of 2009 was largely a result of a $12 million reversal that was recorded in the third quarter. The $12 million reversal resulted from receiving higher collateral valuations for certain properties where the estimated losses were recorded in the second quarter of 2009. The residential lot/land loan component of this portfolio experienced the highest loss rates during 2009. The amount of the allowance allocated for the residential lot/land portfolio was 8.1% as of December 31, 2009.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Deposits and Other Borrowings  

Client deposits generated through the BB&T banking network are the largest source of funds used to support asset growth. Total deposits at December 31, 2009, were $115.0 billion, an increase of $16.4 billion, or 16.6%, compared to year-end 2008. The increase in deposits during 2009 was driven by a $12.7 billion, or 32.2%, increase in other client deposits, which include money market deposit accounts, savings accounts, individual retirement accounts and other time deposits. Noninterest-bearing deposits also increased by $5.3 billion from the prior year and client certificates of deposit (“CDs”) increased by $4.4 billion. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $6.8 billion in other interest-bearing deposits, which includes negotiable certificates of deposit and Eurodollar deposits. The increases in these categories of deposits included the impact of the acquisition of Colonial, which added approximately $16 billion of client deposits in 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, total deposits averaged $102.4 billion, an increase of $13.6 billion, or 15.3%, compared to 2008. The increase in average deposits was primarily the result of an $8.4 billion, or 23.0%, increase in average other client deposits, and a $3.3 billion, or 25.5%, increase in average noninterest-bearing deposits. The increase in average deposits included the impact of Colonial, which was acquired in August 2009, and Haven Trust Bank, which added approximately $500 million of client deposits in December 2008. In early 2010, BB&T sold approximately $850 million in Nevada deposits obtained in the Colonial acquisition which will affect growth rates going forward.  

The following table presents BB&T’s average deposits for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, segregated by major category:  

Table 15  

Composition of Average Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T experienced strong deposit growth during 2009. In addition, the overall mix of deposits continues to improve, as average client deposits grew 17.7% in 2009, while reliance on other interest-bearing deposits declined, due to strong growth in noninterest-bearing and other client deposits, which was aided by the Colonial acquisition. BB&T has been successful in attracting new business and individual accounts by emphasizing the strength of BB&T’s franchise. In addition, the new locations that were acquired in the Colonial transaction have seen growth of $1.5 billion in client deposits since the acquisition date of August 14, 2009. Growth in noninterest-bearing deposits also has benefited from participation in the Transaction Account Guarantee program and an increase in escrow deposits due to significant mortgage lending activity. In addition, BB&T was able to achieve growth in deposits, even as rates declined to historical lows throughout the year. Excluding acquisitions, average noninterest-bearing deposits increased 14.8% in 2009 and total client deposits increased 7.9% as BB&T improved its deposit mix through organic growth.  

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 1.48% during 2009, from 2.50% in 2008. The average cost for interest-bearing deposits declined during 2009 as management was able to lower rates to help the overall margin. The average rates paid on the various categories of interest-bearing deposits also decreased as follows: CDs decreased to 2.60% in the current year from 3.66% in 2008; other client deposits decreased to .88% in the current year from 1.67% in 2008; interest checking decreased to .39% in 2009 from 1.19% in 2008; and other interest-bearing deposits decreased to 1.23% in 2009 from 2.71% in 2008.  

56  

Table of Contents 

BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in meeting funding needs. While client deposits remain the primary source for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borrowings were 8.0% of total funding on average in 2009 as compared to 7.7% in 2008. See Note 9 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings used by the Corporation include Federal funds purchased, which was 17.5% of total short-term borrowings, and securities sold under repurchase agreements, which was 27.1% of short-term borrowings at year-end 2009. Master notes, which are short-term borrowings issued to BB&T’s clients, represented 12.4% of total short-term borrowings at December 31, 2009. Unsecured bank notes, bank obligations collateralized by municipal securities, U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes and borrowings under the treasury auction facility are also used to meet short-term funding needs and represented the remaining 43.0% of these types of funding sources as of December 31, 2009. Short-term borrowings at the end of 2009 were $8.1 billion, a decrease of $2.7 billion, or 24.9% compared to year-end 2008. Average short-term borrowings totaled $12.5 billion during 2009 compared to $10.6 billion last year, an increase of 18.1%. The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 2.44% in 2008 to .50% during 2009. The decrease in the cost of short-term borrowings primarily resulted from a lower average Federal funds rate in effect during 2009 compared to 2008. At December 31, 2009, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to .25%. The following table summarizes certain pertinent information for the past three years with respect to BB&T’s short-term borrowings:  

Table 16  

Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under  

Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T also uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a lesser extent, regulatory capital. Long-term debt was 12.3% of total funding on average during 2009 and 14.5% in 2008. See Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. Long-term debt at December 31, 2009, totaled $21.4 billion, an increase of $3.3 billion, or 18.5%, from year-end 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, average long-term debt decreased $754 million, or 3.8%, compared to the average for 2008. BB&T’s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which composed 49.3% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2009; senior notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 13.1% of the year-end balance; subordinated notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 13.8% of the year-end balance; and junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts issued by the Corporation, which composed 15.3% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2009. The remaining long-term debt primarily consists of both unsecured senior and subordinated borrowings by Branch Bank. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and liquidity. The average rate paid on long-term debt decreased from 4.25% during 2008 to 3.73% during 2009 primarily because BB&T has issued floating rate instruments or elected to swap a portion of its fixed-rate long-term debt to floating rates.  

57  

Table of Contents 

During the second quarter of 2009, BB&T issued $1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes. The notes were issued in two tranches, $510 million 5.70% fixed-rate notes due in 2014 and $541 million 6.85% fixed-rate notes due in 2019. The proceeds from the offering, combined with the common stock offering completed during the second quarter of 2009, and other funds, were used to fund the repurchase of the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program. Also during the second quarter, BB&T recognized $36 million in gains related to the repurchase of $218 million of subordinated debt.  

During the third quarter of 2009, BB&T Capital Trust VI issued $575 million of capital securities. The securities have a fixed interest rate of 9.60% and an initial maturity date of August 2064. These securities are fully guaranteed by BB&T and qualify as Tier 1 capital, subject to certain limitations. In addition, BB&T completed three separate issuances of senior debt during the third quarter for a total of $1.75 billion. BB&T issued $1.0 billion of senior notes, with a fixed interest rate of 3.85% that mature in 2012, $500 million of senior notes, with a fixed interest rate of 3.38%, that mature in 2013, and $250 million of senior notes, with a fixed interest rate of 3.10%, that mature in 2011. The proceeds from all of these offerings are being used for general corporate purposes. BB&T assumed $3.7 billion of FHLB advances in the Colonial acquisition, of which $2.8 billion were prepaid shortly after the acquisition.  

During the fourth quarter of 2009, BB&T Capital Trust VII issued $350 million of capital securities. The securities have a fixed interest rate of 8.10% and an initial maturity date of November 2064. These securities are fully guaranteed by BB&T and qualify as Tier 1 capital, subject to certain limitations.  

Liquidity needs are a primary consideration in evaluating funding sources. BB&T’s strategy is to maintain funding flexibility in order that the Corporation may react rapidly to opportunities that may become available in the marketplace. BB&T will continue to focus on traditional core funding strategies, supplemented as needed by the types of borrowings discussed above. See “Liquidity” herein for additional discussion.  

Shareholders’ Equity  

Shareholders’ equity totaled $16.2 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of $160 million, or 1.0%, from year-end 2008. BB&T’s book value per common share at December 31, 2009 was $23.47, compared to $23.16 at December 31, 2008.  

On June 17, 2009, BB&T repurchased all 3,133.64 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, $1,000,000 liquidation preference per share (the “Series C Preferred Stock”) issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008, as part of the Capital Purchase Program. The aggregate purchase price paid to the U.S. Treasury for the Series C Preferred Stock was approximately $3.1 billion, including approximately $14 million of accrued and unpaid dividends. On July 22, 2009, BB&T repurchased the warrant to purchase up to 13,902,573 shares of its common stock for $67 million, which was also issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008, as part of the Capital Purchase Program.  

On May 13, 2009, BB&T issued 86.25 million shares of common stock at $20 per share for net proceeds of $1.7 billion, and on August 21, 2009, BB&T issued 38.5 million shares of common stock at $26 per share, leading to net proceeds of $963 million. The May issuance was primarily to fund a portion of the repurchase of the Series C Preferred Stock. The August issuance was made in connection with the Colonial acquisition to further strengthen BB&T’s capital levels.  

In addition, growth of $159 million in shareholders’ equity resulted from BB&T’s earnings available to common shareholders retained after dividends along with growth of $315 million from other comprehensive income, which principally relates to increases in the fair values of available-for-sale securities and pension assets.  

BB&T’s tangible shareholders’ equity available to common shareholders was $10.0 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of $2.2 billion, or 28.4%, compared to December 31, 2008. BB&T’s tangible book value per common share at December 31, 2009 was $14.44 compared to $13.87 at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Analysis of Results of Operations  

Consolidated net income for 2009 totaled $877 million. Net income available to common shareholders totaled $729 million, which generated basic earnings per common share of $1.16 and diluted earnings per common share of $1.15. Net income for 2008 was $1.53 billion and net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.50 billion. Net income for 2007 totaled $1.75 billion. Basic earnings per common share were $2.73 in 2008 and $3.17 in 2007, while diluted earnings per common share were $2.71 and $3.14 for 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability are return on average assets (net income as a percentage of average total assets) and return on average common shareholders’ equity (net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders’ equity). BB&T’s returns on average assets were ..56%, 1.12%, and 1.38% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The returns on average common shareholders’ equity were 4.93%, 11.44%, and 14.25% for the last three years.  

Net Interest Income  

Net interest income is BB&T’s primary source of revenue. Net interest income is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earned and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of the supporting funds (with an adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comparability with taxable items, i.e. the “FTE” adjustment) is measured by the net interest margin. The accompanying table presents the dollar amount of changes in interest income and interest expense, and distinguishes between the changes related to increases or decreases in average outstanding balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities (volume), and the changes related to increases or decreases in average interest rates on such assets and liabilities (rate). Changes attributable to both volume and rate have been allocated proportionately.  

For 2009, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $5.0 billion, compared with $4.3 billion in 2008 and $3.9 billion in 2007. Net interest income increased 14.9% in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in net interest income during 2009 resulted primarily from a combination of factors. First, earning asset growth has helped offset the declines in yields due to the rate environment, as well as higher yields from the covered loan portfolio. Second, management has been successful in controlling liability costs by engineering a favorable mix change in both deposit and funding costs. These positives were partially offset by higher levels of nonaccruals that have negatively affected net interest income and the net interest margin. Net interest income increased 9.4% in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to liability costs repricing more quickly as short-term rates declined throughout the year.  

The FTE-adjusted net interest margin is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted net interest margin was 3.66% in 2009, 3.58% in 2008 and 3.52% in 2007. During 2009, the average yield on interest earning assets decreased 88 basis points compared to the average yield during 2008, while the average cost of funds over the same time period decreased 108 basis points. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2009 was primarily due to successfully managing liability costs and wider spreads on assets. The net interest margin in 2008 was negatively impacted five basis points by an adjustment of $67 million, as a result of a change in the income recognition on leveraged lease transactions in connection with BB&T’s settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In addition, the net interest margin has been negatively affected by the higher level of non-performing assets in 2009 and 2008. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2008 was caused by a combination of factors. BB&T entered 2008 in a liability sensitive position, which means that interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice more frequently than interest-earning assets. This resulted in lower funding costs throughout 2008, as the Federal Reserve Board lowered short-term rates by 100 basis points in the last four months of 2007 and an additional 400 basis points during 2008. Additionally, BB&T experienced some improvement in loan pricing in 2008.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Table 17  

FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis  

For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields are stated on a taxable equivalent basis assuming tax rates in effect for the periods presented.  

 (2)   Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements, interest-bearing deposits with banks, and other earning assets.  

 (3)   Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods shown, have been included for rate calculation purposes.  

 (4)   Nonaccrual loans have been included in the average balances.  

 (5)   Includes securities available for sale at amortized cost and trading securities at fair value.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Credit Losses  

A provision for credit losses is charged against earnings in order to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that reflects management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the credit portfolios at the balance sheet date. The amount of the provision is based on continuing assessments of nonperforming and “watch list” loans and associated unfunded credit commitments, analytical reviews of loss experience in relation to outstanding loans and funded credit commitments, loan charge-offs, nonperforming asset trends and management’s judgment with respect to current and expected economic conditions and their impact on the loan portfolio and outstanding unfunded credit commitments. The methodology used is described in the “Overview and Description of Business” section under the heading “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Credit Commitments.” The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2009 was $2.8 billion, compared with $1.4 billion in 2008 and $448 million in 2007.  

The provision for credit losses increased 94.5% during 2009 while total loans and leases held for investment excluding covered loans declined 1.7% compared to the balance outstanding at the end of 2008. Net charge-offs were 1.74% of average loans and leases (or 1.79% excluding covered loans) for 2009 compared to .89% of average loans and leases during 2008. The allowance for loan and lease losses was 2.51% of loans and leases held for investment (or 2.72% excluding covered loans) and was .96x total nonaccrual loans and leases at year-end 2009, compared to 1.62% and 1.11x, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The increase in the provision for credit losses during 2009 compared to 2008 was largely driven by ongoing challenges in residential real estate markets and the overall economy with the largest concentration of credit issues occurring in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas. Additional disclosures related to BB&T’s real estate lending by product type and geographic distribution can be found in Table 14 herein. The 222.5% increase in the provision for credit losses during 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily the result of these same issues.  

Noninterest Income  

Noninterest income has become, and will continue to be, a significant contributor to BB&T’s financial success. Noninterest income includes insurance income, service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on securities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from other activities. Noninterest income as a percentage of total FTE revenues has steadily increased in recent years, totaling 44.2% for 2009. Excluding net securities gains and a gain from the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business, noninterest income was 42.8% of total revenues in 2009. Exceeding 40% on this measure had been a management objective for several years. Management has established a goal for noninterest income to exceed 45% of total revenues in the next few years to further reduce BB&T’s reliance on traditional spread-based interest income, as fee-based activities are a relatively stable revenue source during periods of changing interest rates.  

The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T’s noninterest income:  

Table 18  

Noninterest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

61  

Table of Contents 

The 23.1% growth in noninterest income was the result of increased revenues from almost all of BB&T’s fee-based businesses during 2009. These increases were partially offset by small declines in investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions and trust and investment advisory revenues. During 2008, noninterest income grew 15.2% as a result of increased revenues from all of BB&T’s fee-based businesses, with the exception of declines in income from bank-owned life insurance and trust and investment advisory services. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations reflect the impact of acquisitions.  

Income from BB&T’s insurance agency/brokerage operations was the largest source of noninterest income. Internal growth, combined with the expansion of BB&T’s insurance agency network through acquisitions during the last two years, resulted in growth of 12.8% in 2009 and 8.8% in 2008. The increase in insurance income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily driven by commissions for property and casualty insurance, which increased $77 million primarily due to acquisitions. In addition, employee benefit commissions and other insurance fees increased $14 million and $11 million, respectively. The increase in commission income during 2008 was primarily related to revenues from a new product initiative that was introduced in the second half of 2007. Additionally, commissions for property and casualty and employee benefit insurance each increased $19 million.  

Service charges on deposit accounts represent BB&T’s second largest category of noninterest revenue. Service charge revenue grew $17 million, or 2.5%. Service charge revenue increased $62 million, or 10.1%, during 2008. The increase in 2009 was primarily a result of the acquisition of Colonial and growth in transaction accounts. The 2008 increase was generated by increased revenues from overdraft items and strong transaction account growth during 2008.  

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions decreased $8 million, or 2.3%, compared to 2008. The 3.2% increase in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted primarily from increased revenues of $19 million from BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow. This increase was partially offset by a decline of $13 million related to commissions from retail accounts at Scott & Stringfellow.  

Other nondeposit fees and commissions, including bankcard fees and merchant discounts and checkcard fees increased $71 million, or 13.1%, during 2009 compared to 2008. During 2008, these categories increased $38 million, or 7.6%, compared to 2007. The growth in 2009 was partially due to a $27 million increase as a result of issuing more letters of credit and other commercial loan servicing fees. The increases in 2009 and 2008 also included additional checkcard fees of $26 million and $21 million, respectively, as clients continued to show a preference for utilizing electronic forms of payment rather than traditional paper checks. Bankcard fees also grew $5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 and $12 million in 2008 compared to 2007, as a result of strong sales of merchant services.  

Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets managed, which is affected by stock market conditions. During 2009, trust and investment advisory revenues decreased by $8 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2008. During 2008, trust and investment advisory revenues decreased by $15 million, or 9.3%, compared to 2007, primarily because of the decline in the value of assets under management.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Income from mortgage banking activities includes gains and losses from the sale of mortgage loans, revenue from servicing mortgage loans, valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights, mortgage servicing rights-related derivative gains/losses and the amortization or realization of expected mortgage servicing rights cash flows. Mortgage banking income totaled $658 million, $275 million and $115 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table provides a breakdown of the various components of mortgage banking income and related statistical information:  

Table 19  

Mortgage Banking Income and Related Statistical Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM = not meaningful  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mortgage banking income increased $383 million, or 139.3%, during 2009. This increase includes the net change in the mortgage servicing rights valuation, which resulted in an increase of $50 million compared to 2008. Mortgage banking income for 2008 included certain one-time items associated with the implementation of fair value accounting standards that benefited results by approximately $23 million. Excluding the impact of these items, mortgage banking income increased $356 million compared to the same period last year. The growth in mortgage banking income is primarily attributable to record production revenues from residential mortgage banking operations, including $28.2 billion in mortgage loan originations during 2009 compared to $16.4 billion during 2008. Mortgage banking income increased $160 million, or 139.1%, during 2008. This increase was primarily due to a change in accounting standards, which resulted in an increase of $74 million compared to 2007. Of the $74 million increase relating to the adoption of new accounting standards, approximately $55 million relates to the elimination of recognizing the cost of originating loans as a reduction in revenues and resulted in a  

63  

Table of Contents 

 corresponding increase in personnel expense. The net change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights resulted in a $38 million increase compared to 2007. Excluding the impact of these items, mortgage banking income increased $48 million, or 43.2%, compared to 2007. The growth in mortgage banking income for 2008 compared to 2007 includes strong production revenues from both residential and commercial mortgage banking operations. The growth in commercial mortgage banking revenues was the result of the acquisition of Collateral Real Estate Capital, LLC (“Collateral”) in the fourth quarter of 2007. BB&T combined the operations of Collateral with its existing commercial mortgage banking operations and renamed the subsidiary Grandbridge Real Estate Capital LLC (“Grandbridge”). The acquisition of Collateral significantly expanded the size and product offerings of BB&T’s commercial mortgage banking activities.  

BB&T recognized $199 million in net securities gains during 2009 compared to net gains of $107 million and net losses of $3 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. The net securities gains recognized in 2009 included $240 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $41 million of losses as a result of other-than-temporary impairments. The net securities gains recognized in 2008 included $211 million of net gains from securities sales and $104 million of losses as a result of other-than-temporary impairments.  

Income from bank owned life insurance (“BOLI”) increased $13 million, or 15.5%, in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to a valuation adjustment in the prior year that resulted from a decline in the underlying assets of certain insurance policies. BOLI income decreased $17 million, or 16.8%, in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Other income increased $58 million, or 65.9%, in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to a $74 million increase in the value of various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits. The increase in the value of these assets is neutral to net income as these gains relate to participant’s accounts and increase the amount of benefits that will be paid in the future. The current year also included a $27 million gain on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business. Trading gains at Scott & Stringfellow increased $25 million and BB&T recognized $23 million in accretion on the FDIC loss share asset. These increases were partially offset by $80 million in gains in 2008 related to BB&T’s ownership interest and sale of Visa, Inc. stock. The slight decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was driven by several factors. As mentioned above, other income in 2008 included gains related to BB&T’s ownership interest and sale of Visa, Inc. stock that amounted to $80 million. In addition, revenues from client derivative activities were $22 million higher in 2008 compared to 2007. These increases were offset by a number of factors, including a $50 million decline in the value of various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits. The decline in the value of these assets is neutral to net income as these losses relate to participant’s accounts and reduce the amount of benefits that will be paid in the future. Earnings from investments in low income housing partnerships that generate tax benefits declined $39 million and net revenues from BB&T’s venture capital investments declined $26 million. In addition, the change in results for 2008 compared to 2007 were affected by certain items that occurred in 2007, including a gain of $19 million on the sale of an insurance operation and $33 million in losses from capital markets activities due to disruptions in the financial markets that decreased the value of certain trading securities and derivative contracts.  

The ability to generate significant amounts of noninterest revenue in the future will be very important to the continued financial success of BB&T. Through its subsidiaries, BB&T will continue to focus on asset management, mortgage banking, trust, insurance, investment banking and brokerage services, as well as other fee-producing products and services. BB&T plans to continue to pursue acquisitions of additional financial services companies, including insurance agencies and other fee income producing businesses as a means of expanding fee-based revenues. Also, among BB&T’s principal strategies following the acquisition of a financial institution is the cross-sell of noninterest income generating products and services to the acquired institution’s client base. As previously mentioned, management has set a goal to increase the contribution of noninterest revenue sources to 45% of total income over the next few years.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Noninterest Expense  

Noninterest expense totaled $4.9 billion in 2009, $3.9 billion in 2008 and $3.6 billion in 2007. Noninterest expense includes certain merger-related and restructuring charges recorded during the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 as noted in Table 21 below. These amounts totaled $38 million in 2009, $15 million in 2008 and $21 million in 2007. Additional disclosures related to these merger-related and restructuring charges are presented in “Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges.” The table below shows the components of noninterest expense and the discussion that follows explains the composition of certain categories and the factors that caused them to change in 2009 and 2008.  

Table 20  

Noninterest Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

The 26.1% and 7.9% increases in total noninterest expense during 2009 and 2008 were primarily due to increases in personnel costs, foreclosed property expense and professional services. In addition, 2009 reflects a significant increase in regulatory charges as a result of increased FDIC insurance premiums. The increases during 2009 and 2008 were impacted by the acquisitions of Colonial during 2009 and AFCO and Coastal during 2007 and several nonbank financial services companies during 2007 through 2009.  

Total personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest expense and includes salaries and wages, as well as pension and other employee benefit costs. Total personnel expense increased $316 million, or 14.4%, in 2009. This increase was partially driven by increases in salaries and wages of $137 million which includes the impact of acquisitions. Other post-employment benefits expense and pension plan expense also increased $67 million and $66 million, respectively. The increase in pension expense was largely the result of a reduction in the discount rate and a decline the value of plan assets, whereas the increase in other post employment benefits expense was due to increases in the value of participant’s accounts and was offset by a similar increase in noninterest income. In addition, health care and other welfare expenses were higher by $36 million.  

65  

Table of Contents 

The 2008 increase of 5.1% resulted primarily from additional salaries and wages as a result of acquisitions and the implementation of the fair value option for loans held for sale, which changed the accounting for loan origination costs. Total salaries and wages expense increased $148 million, or 8.6%, in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to annual salary increases and higher overall headcount. The increase also includes approximately $55 million related to the change in accounting for loans held for sale as discussed previously and a decrease in annual incentive compensation. The 10.8% decrease in pension and other employee benefit costs was driven by a decrease in nonqualified defined contribution plan expense of $52 million, which is based on the value of assets in the participant’s accounts. In addition, defined benefit plan expenses were down $23 million in 2008 compared to 2007 due to contributions made to the qualified pension plan in 2007 and 2008 that increased the estimated return on plan assets that is recorded as a component of defined benefit plan expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in health care and other welfare expenses of $20 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Additional disclosures relating to BB&T’s benefit plans can be found in Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $70 million, or 13.8%, in 2009. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to increased rent expense related to the Colonial acquisition. During 2008, net occupancy and equipment expense increased by $32 million, or 6.7%. The increase in 2008 was largely a result of increased lease expenses due to BB&T’s de novo branching strategy.  

Foreclosed property expense increased $277 million in 2009. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to rising maintenance costs, valuation adjustments and sales of foreclosed property. Maintenance cost on foreclosed properties increased by $67 million in 2009 compared to 2008, while valuation adjustments and losses from sales of properties increased by $206 million compared to the same period in 2008. BB&T’s inventory of foreclosed property increased by $913 million compared to year-end 2008 as a result of the economic recession and challenges in the residential real estate market. Foreclosed property expense increased by $48 million in 2008.  

Regulatory charges increased $200 million in 2009. The increase in 2009 was a result of higher FDIC insurance expense which increased $201 million. The higher FDIC insurance expense reflects increased premiums charged by the FDIC as one step the FDIC has taken to insure adequate funding to resolve failed institutions. In addition to the higher premiums, the FDIC also levied a special assessment of $68 million in the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC also required that insured depository institutions prepay three years of assessments on December 31, 2009. BB&T’s prepayment was $608 million and will be expensed as incurred over the three-year period based on the actual FDIC assessment calculation. During 2008, regulatory charges increased by $16 million.  

Other noninterest expenses increased $157 million, or 14.4%, compared to 2008, which reflected an increase of $84 million, or 8.3%, compared to 2007. The 2009 increase was primarily the result of increases in professional services and operational losses of $58 million and $43 million, respectively. Merger-related and restructuring charges and software expense also increased $23 million and $20 million, respectively, from the prior year. The 2008 increase primarily reflected higher professional services expense and software expense. The increases for 2009 and 2008 were impacted by acquisitions completed during the past two years. Please refer to Table 20 for additional detail on fluctuations in other categories of noninterest expense.  

Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

BB&T recorded certain merger-related and restructuring charges during the years 2009, 2008 and 2007. These charges are reflected in BB&T’s Consolidated Statements of Income as a category of noninterest expense. Please Refer to Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a summary of mergers and acquisitions consummated during the three years ended December 31, 2009.  

During 2009, BB&T recorded $38 million of merger-related and restructuring charges. These amounts were primarily associated with the acquisition of Colonial, which was completed during the year. BB&T currently estimates that total merger-related and restructuring charges for the Colonial acquisition will be approximately $185 million, of which $27 million has been expensed through December 31, 2009. The majority of the estimated charges will be incurred during the second quarter of 2010 in connection with the completion of the remaining systems conversions. The 2008 net merger-related and restructuring charges of $15 million were primarily associated with the acquisitions of insurance agencies and other merger-related and restructuring activities.  

66  

Table of Contents 

 During 2007, BB&T recorded merger-related and restructuring charges of $21 million. These expenses were recorded in connection with the acquisition of Coastal and other merger-related and restructuring activities.  

The following table presents the components of merger-related and restructuring charges included in noninterest expenses. This table includes changes to previously recorded merger-related accruals and period expenses for merger-related items that must be expensed as incurred. Items that are required to be expensed as incurred include certain expenses associated with systems conversions, data processing, training and other costs.  

Table 21  

Summary of Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Severance and personnel-related costs or credits include severance, employee retention, payments related to change-in-control provisions of employment contracts, outplacement services and other benefits associated with employee termination or reversals of previously estimated amounts, which typically occur in corporate support and data processing functions. Occupancy and equipment charges or credits represent merger-related and restructuring costs or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipment write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment. Credits may result when obsolete properties or equipment are sold for more than originally estimated. Other merger-related and restructuring charges or credits include expenses necessary to convert and combine the acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply inventory write-offs, litigation accruals, and other similar charges.  

Merger-related and restructuring accruals are established when the costs are incurred or once all requirements for a plan to dispose of certain business functions have been approved by management. In general, a major portion of accrued costs are utilized in conjunction with or immediately following the systems conversion, when most of the duplicate positions are eliminated and the terminated employees begin to receive severance. Other accruals are utilized over time based on the sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or the expiration of lease contracts. Merger and restructuring accruals are re-evaluated periodically and adjusted as necessary. The remaining accruals at December 31, 2009 are expected to be utilized during 2010, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years. The following tables present a summary of activity with respect to BB&T’s merger and restructuring accruals. These tables include costs reflected as expenses, as presented in the table above, and certain accruals recorded through purchase accounting adjustments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

67  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Income Taxes  

BB&T’s provision for income taxes totaled $159 million for 2009, a decrease of $391 million, or 71.1%, compared to 2008. The decline in the provision for income taxes during 2009 was largely due to lower pretax income, stable tax-exempt income and non-taxable gains of $19 million primarily related to leveraged lease terminations. The provisions for income taxes totaled $550 million in 2008 and $836 million in 2007. BB&T’s effective tax rates for the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 15.3%, 26.5% and 32.4%, respectively. The decline in the provision for income taxes during 2008 was largely due to lower pretax income, as well as a credit of $60 million related to leveraged leases as discussed below. A reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate is included in Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein.  

BB&T has extended credit to, and invested in, the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments together with certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment have reduced BB&T’s overall effective tax rate from the statutory rate in 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

BB&T continually monitors and evaluates the potential impact of current events and circumstances on the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis of its income tax positions and, accordingly, BB&T’s effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future. On a periodic basis, BB&T evaluates its income tax positions based on tax laws and regulations and financial reporting considerations, and records adjustments as appropriate. This evaluation takes into consideration the status of current taxing authorities’ examinations of BB&T’s tax returns, recent positions taken by the taxing authorities on similar transactions, if any, and the overall tax environment in relation to tax-advantaged transactions. Accordingly, the results of these examinations may alter the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. In February 2010, BB&T received a statutory notice of deficiency from the IRS for tax years 2002-2007 asserting a liability for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $890 million related to foreign tax credits and other deductions claimed by a deconsolidated subsidiary in connection with a financing transaction. Management has consulted with outside counsel and continues to believe that BB&T’s treatment of this transaction was in compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations. Consequently, BB&T will pay the disputed tax, penalties and interest in the first quarter of 2010 and then file a lawsuit seeking a refund in federal court. Management believes the Company’s current reserves for this matter are adequate, although the final outcome is uncertain. Final resolution of this matter is not expected to occur within the next twelve months. Various years remain subject to examination by state taxing authorities. Please refer to Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s unresolved tax issues related to tax examinations by the IRS and other taxing authorities.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, BB&T agreed to treat its leveraged leases in accordance with the IRS’s proposal that, among other things, allows 20% of deductions, imputes interest income and deems the remaining transactions to be terminated as of December 31, 2008. As a result of this settlement, BB&T recognized pre-tax interest income of $93 million, or $60 million after-tax, which is reflected as a reduction in tax expense. As a result of changes in the timing of tax payments, a recalculation of each transaction was required that resulted in a $67 million charge to interest income and a corresponding $24 million tax benefit. As part of the IRS proposal, all gains on leases terminated prior to December 31, 2010 are treated as nontaxable. During 2009, BB&T terminated a number of leveraged lease transactions, which resulted in tax benefits of $18 million.  

Market Risk Management  

The effective management of market risk is essential to achieving BB&T’s strategic financial objectives. As a financial institution, BB&T’s most significant market risk exposure is interest rate risk; however, market risk also includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk. The primary objective of interest rate risk management is to minimize any adverse effect that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income. This is accomplished through active management of asset and liability portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportunities in BB&T’s portfolios of assets and liabilities that will produce consistent net interest income during periods of changing  

68  

Table of Contents 

 interest rates. BB&T’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee monitors loan, investment and liability portfolios to ensure comprehensive management of interest rate risk. These portfolios are analyzed for proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios.  

The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve relatively stable net interest margins and assure liquidity by coordinating the volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets, deposits and borrowed funds. It is the responsibility of the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate performance goals. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term strategies with respect to interest rate risk exposure and liquidity. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee meets regularly to review BB&T’s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in interest rates is within acceptable standards.  

BB&T uses a variety of financial instruments to manage various financial risks. These instruments, commonly referred to as derivatives, primarily consist of interest-rate swaps, swaptions, caps, floors, collars, financial forward and futures contracts, when-issued securities and options written and purchased. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage risk related to securities, business loans, Federal funds purchased, other overnight funding, long-term debt, mortgage servicing rights, mortgage banking operations and certificates of deposit. BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. BB&T’s derivatives produced a benefit to net interest income of $209 million during 2009, a benefit to net interest income of $101 million in 2008 and a decrease in net interest income of $19 million in 2007. The increase in benefits to net interest income from derivatives activities during 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily the result of benefits received on interest rate swaps on commercial loans. The increase in benefits to net interest income from 2007 to 2008 can primarily be attributed to decreases in rates that affected the benefits received on BB&T’s interest rate swaps on its medium and long-term debt.  

Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts. Notional amounts only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and do not represent amounts to be exchanged between parties, and are not a measure of financial risk. On December 31, 2009, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $66.2 billion. The estimated net fair value of open contracts was $283 million at December 31, 2009.  

See Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures.  

Impact of Inflation and Changing Interest Rates  

The majority of BB&T’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories. Fluctuations in interest rates and actions of the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the availability and cost of credit have a greater effect on a financial institution’s profitability than do the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates and inflationary trends.  

69  

Table of Contents 

BB&T’s interest rate sensitivity is illustrated in the following table. The table reflects rate-sensitive positions at December 31, 2009, and is not necessarily indicative of positions on other dates. The carrying amounts of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities are presented in the periods in which they next reprice to market rates or mature and are aggregated to show the interest rate sensitivity gap. To reflect anticipated prepayments, certain asset and liability categories are shown in the table using estimated cash flows rather than contractual cash flows.  

Table 22  

Interest Rate Sensitivity Gap Analysis  

December 31, 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Securities based on amortized cost.  

 (2)   Loans and leases include loans held for sale and are net of unearned income.  

 (3)   Projected runoff of deposits that do not have a contractual maturity date was computed based upon decay rate assumptions developed by bank regulators to assist banks in addressing FDICIA rule 305.  

 (4)   The maturity periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact of hedging strategies.  

Management uses Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis (“Simulation”) to measure the sensitivity of projected earnings to changes in interest rates. The Simulation model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for a rolling two-year period of time. Simulation takes into account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, investments and commitments to enter into those transactions. Furthermore, the Simulation considers the impact of expected customer behavior. Management monitors BB&T’s interest sensitivity by means of a computer model that incorporates the current volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities and payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with multiple scenarios of projected prepayments, repricing opportunities and anticipated volume growth. Using this information, the model projects earnings based on projected portfolio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios. This level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in interest rates and portfolio balances may have on the earnings of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as static or dynamic gap. In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) analysis to focus on changes in capital given potential changes in interest rates. This measure also allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analysis window contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T’s assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the economic value of BB&T’s equity.  

70  

Table of Contents 

The asset/liability management process requires a number of key assumptions. Management determines the most likely outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T’s current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach performance goals.  

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next twelve months under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the Simulation model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sensitivity, customer preferences and capital plans. The resulting change in interest sensitive income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest sensitive income has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 23  

Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee has established parameters measuring interest sensitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months for a linear change of 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining eight month period, and a maximum negative impact of 4% for a linear change of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month period. In the event that the results of the Simulation model fall outside the established parameters, management will make recommendations to the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee on the most appropriate response given the current economic forecast. Management only modeled a negative 25 basis point decline in the current period because larger declines would have resulted in a Federal funds rate of less than zero.  

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE as projected under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the EVE model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, and deposit sensitivity. The resulting change in the economic value of equity reflects the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 24  

Economic Value of Equity ("EVE") Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

71  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity  

Liquidity represents BB&T’s continuing ability to meet funding needs, primarily deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as trading securities and securities available for sale, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sale.  

The purpose of the Parent Company is to serve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The assets of the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of the Parent Company are principal and interest on master notes, long-term debt, and redeemable capital securities. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and master notes. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for the retirement of common stock, investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to shareholders, and interest and principal payments due on long-term debt and master notes.  

The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements has been net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, which totaled $3.9 billion in 2009. In addition, dividends received from Branch Bank and its subsidiaries totaled $459 million during 2009. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, master note balances totaled $1.0 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively.  

The Parent Company had five issues of senior notes outstanding totaling $2.8 billion and five issues of subordinated notes outstanding totaling $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, the Parent Company had $3.3 billion of junior subordinated debentures outstanding to unconsolidated trusts. Please refer to Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information with respect to these senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated debentures.  

Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional certificates of deposit, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, participation in the Treasury, Tax and Loan and Special Direct Investment programs with the Federal Reserve Bank, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered certificates of deposit and a borrower in custody program with the Federal Reserve Bank for the discount window. As of December 31, 2009, BB&T has approximately $39 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents approximately 413% of one year wholesale funding maturities.  

72  

Table of Contents 

BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies’ views of BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T and Branch Bank. The ratings for BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table below.  

Table 25  

Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank  

December 31, 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

On February 17, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service announced a downgrading of BB&T’s trust preferred securities from “A2” to “A3” due to a change in their methodology for evaluating these types of securities.  

BB&T, Branch Bank and BB&T FSB have Contingency Funding Plans (“CFPs”) designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet their ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. The CFPs are designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under various “stress” scenarios. Additionally, the CFPs provide a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The CFPs address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.  

Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. See Note 6 “Premises and Equipment,” Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” and Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, and Related Party Transactions  

The following table presents, as of December 31, 2009, BB&T’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments that may be required in connection with these liabilities. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Table 26  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  

December 31, 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excludes leases associated with the Colonial acquisition that were assumed in February 2010. Annual lease payments of approximately $30 million are expected.  

 (2)   Disputed tax payment expected to be made in first quarter 2010 for which BB&T plans to file a lawsuit seeking a refund.  

 (3)   Estimated value of premises and equipment to be purchased from FDIC in connection with the Colonial acquisition.  

BB&T’s significant commitments include certain investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects throughout its market area. BB&T enters into such arrangements as a means of supporting local communities and recognizes tax credits relating to these investments. At December 31, 2009, BB&T’s investments in such projects totaled $1.1 billion, which includes outstanding commitments of $371 million. BB&T typically acts as a limited partner in these investments and does not exert control over the operating or financial policies of the partnerships. Branch Bank typically provides financing during the construction and development of the properties; however, permanent financing is generally obtained from independent third parties upon completion of a project. As of December 31, 2009, BB&T had $165 million in loan commitments outstanding related to these projects, of which $73 million had been funded. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and loan commitments made. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of these investments in limited partnerships.  

In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financial risk. Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

74  

Table of Contents 

In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also issues standard representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. Counterparties in many of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T.  

BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits. In these states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that state.  

BB&T has investments and future funding commitments to certain venture capital funds. As of December 31, 2009, BB&T had investments of $281 million related to these ventures and future funding commitments of $183 million. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and future funding commitments made.  

Merger and acquisition agreements of businesses other than financial institutions occasionally include additional incentives to the acquired entities to offset the loss of future cash flows previously received through ownership positions. Typically, these incentives are based on the acquired entity’s contribution to BB&T’s earnings compared to agreed-upon amounts. When offered, these incentives are typically issued for terms of three to five years. As certain provisions of these agreements do not specify dollar limitations, it is not possible to quantify the maximum exposure resulting from these agreements.  

As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (“FHLB”), BB&T is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock. The board of directors of the FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to increase BB&T’s investment in the FHLB depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the FHLB are not determinable.  

In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and financial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

BB&T’s significant commitments and obligations are summarized in the accompanying table. Not all of the commitments presented in the table will be used thus the actual cash requirements are likely to be significantly less than the amounts reported.  

Table 27  

Summary of Significant Commitments  

December 31, 2009  

(Dollars in millions)   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Other commitments include unfunded business loan commitments, unfunded overdraft protection on demand deposit accounts and other unfunded commitments to lend.  

75  

Table of Contents 

Related Party Transactions  

The Corporation may extend credit to certain officers and directors in the ordinary course of business. These loans are made under substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking regulations.  

Capital  

The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T’s principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support BB&T’s comprehensive risk profile, preserve a sufficient capital base from which to support future growth, provide a competitive return to shareholders, comply with regulatory standards and achieve optimal credit ratings for BB&T and its subsidiaries.  

Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on a consolidated basis. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that will result in BB&T being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes and to maintain sufficient capital relative to the Corporation’s level of risk. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain consolidated capital levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with BB&T’s peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. Management particularly monitors and intends to maintain the following minimum capital ratios:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments of cash dividends to BB&T’s shareholders, which have generally been in the range of 40.0% to 60.0% of earnings, and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125.0%. The active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of BB&T’s capital position.  

The capital of BB&T’s subsidiaries is regularly monitored to determine if the levels that management believes are the most beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Management intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank and BB&T FSB at levels that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain Branch Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory and other operating considerations, in the form of special dividend payments.  

While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Corporation temporarily falling below its minimum guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management’s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted minimums within a reasonable period of time. Such temporary decreases below these minimums are not considered an infringement of BB&T’s overall capital policy provided the Corporation and Branch Bank remain “well-capitalized.”  

Capital Adequacy and Resources  

Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements with respect to risk-based capital adequacy. Capital adequacy is an important indicator of financial stability and performance.  

Risk-based capital ratios measure capital as a percentage of a combination of risk-weighted balance sheet and off-balance sheet risk. The risk-weighted values of both balance sheet and off-balance sheet items are  

76  

Table of Contents 

 determined in accordance with risk factors specified by Federal bank regulatory pronouncements. As of December 31, 2009, federal bank regulators did not prescribe measures of tangible capital and, therefore, these measures were considered non-GAAP. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate measures of tangible capital and Tier 1 common capital. BB&T’s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

Tier 1 capital is calculated as common shareholders’ equity, excluding the over- or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets, net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments. Tier 2 capital may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses. Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referred to as total regulatory capital. Tier 1 capital is required to be at least 4% of risk-weighted assets, and total capital must be at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, with one half of the minimum consisting of Tier 1 capital.  

In addition to the risk-based capital measures described above, regulators have also established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. The minimum required Tier 1 leverage ratio ranges from 3% to 5% depending upon Federal bank regulatory agency evaluations of an organization’s overall safety and soundness. BB&T’s regulatory and tangible capital ratios are set forth in the following table.  

Table 28  

Capital—Components and Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

77  

Table of Contents 

 (1)   Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T's management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

 (2)   Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements. Under the regulatory framework for determining risk-weighted assets each asset class is assigned a risk-weighting of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100% based on the underlying risk of the specific asset class. In addition, off balance sheet exposures are first converted to a balance sheet equivalent amount and subsequently assigned to one of the four risk-weightings.  

As further described below and reflected in the table, BB&T has entered into a transaction involving the issuance of capital securities (“Capital Securities”) by a Delaware statutory trust formed by the Company (the “Trust”). Simultaneously with the closing of this transaction, BB&T entered into a replacement capital covenant (the “Replacement Capital Covenant”) for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness of the Company or its largest depository institution subsidiary (the “Specified Debt”). The Replacement Capital Covenant provides that neither BB&T nor any of its subsidiaries (including the Trust) will repay, redeem or purchase any of the Capital Securities and the securities held by the Trust (the “Other Securities”), as applicable, on or before the date specified in the Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Capital Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and (ii) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board.  

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for the transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital Securities issued, (iv) Other Securities, and (v) applicable Specified Debt.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Common Stock and Dividends  

BB&T’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on earnings from operations, the adequacy of capital and the availability of liquid assets for distribution. BB&T’s ability to generate liquid assets for distribution is dependent on the ability of Branch Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The payment of cash dividends is an integral part of providing a competitive return on shareholders’ investments. The Corporation’s policy is to accomplish this while retaining sufficient capital to support future growth and to meet regulatory requirements. BB&T’s common dividend payout ratio, computed by dividing dividends declared per common share by basic earnings per common share, was 79.31% in 2009 compared to 68.50% in 2008. BB&T’s payout ratio was higher in 2009 due to lower earnings during the economic recession. BB&T’s annual cash dividends declared per common share declined 50.8% during 2009 to $.92 per common share for the year, compared to $1.87 per common share in 2008. On May 11, 2009, BB&T’s Board of Directors reduced the quarterly cash dividend 68% from $.47 to $.15. Decreasing the dividend was necessary due to the continuing poor economic conditions and preserves approximately $725 million of capital per year based on the shares outstanding at the time of the decision. For the fourth quarter of 2009, BB&T’s common dividend payout ratio was 55.56%. BB&T has paid a cash dividend to shareholders every year since 1903. A discussion of dividend restrictions is included in Note 16 “Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and in the “Regulatory Considerations” section.  

BB&T’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “BBT”. BB&T’s common stock was held by approximately 381,000 shareholders at December 31, 2009 compared to  

78  

Table of Contents 

 approximately 358,000 at December 31, 2008. The accompanying table, “Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Dividends Paid on Common Stock,” sets forth the quarterly high and low trading prices and closing sales prices for BB&T’s common stock and the dividends paid per share of common stock for each of the last eight quarters.  

Table 29  

Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Cash Dividends Declared on Common Stock  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Share Repurchases  

BB&T has periodically repurchased shares of its own common stock. In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase.  

On June 27, 2006, BB&T’s Board of Directors granted authority under a plan (the “2006 Plan”) for the repurchase of up to 50 million shares of BB&T’s common stock as needed for general corporate purposes. The 2006 Plan also authorizes the repurchase of the remaining shares from the previous authorization. The 2006 Plan remains in effect until all the authorized shares are repurchased unless modified by the Board of Directors. No shares were repurchased in connection with the 2006 Plan during 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, BB&T repurchased 7 million shares of common stock.  

Table 30  

Share Repurchase Activity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Repurchases reflect shares exchanged or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under BB&T's equity-based compensation plans.  

 (2)   Excludes commissions.  

Segment Results  

BB&T’s operations are divided into seven reportable business segments: the Banking Network, Residential Mortgage Banking, Sales Finance, Specialized Lending, Insurance Services, Financial Services and Treasury. These operating segments have been identified based primarily on BB&T’s organizational structure. See Note 21 “Operating Segments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein, for additional disclosures  

79  

Table of Contents 

 related to BB&T’s operating segments, the internal accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments. Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the “Noninterest Income” and “Noninterest Expense” sections of this discussion and analysis.  

Banking Network  

The Banking Network had solid internal deposit growth, while the loan portfolios declined slightly due to the general economic conditions and lack of strong demand for lending products during 2009. The total Banking Network was composed of 1,857 banking offices at the end of 2009, an increase of 346 offices compared to 1,511 banking offices at December 31, 2008. The increase in offices was the result of the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial as well as a de novo branching strategy to expand BB&T’s presence in high growth markets. Net income attributable to the Banking Network declined $644 million, or 61.1%, compared to 2008, primarily as a result of higher provision for loan loss expense, credit related expenses primarily in owned real estate expense and FDIC insurance premiums. Comparing 2008 to 2007, net income in the Banking Network decreased $584 million, or 35.7%.  

Net interest income for the Banking Network totaled $3.6 billion in 2009 compared to $3.2 billion in 2008. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to an increase of $807 million in the net funds transfer pricing (“FTP”) provided to the Banking Network during 2009, offset by a decrease of $481 million in net interest income from clients. The decline in net interest income from clients in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower interest income on loans resulting from the sustained historically low prime rate and increased non-accrual loan balances, partially offset through controlling liability costs. It is important to note that the acquired loan portfolio is covered by the loss sharing agreement under the terms of the Colonial acquisition and managed outside of the Banking Network. The assets and related interest income from this portfolio are included in the Parent/Reconciling Items segment. New loans originated by the acquired Colonial branches after August 14, 2009 will be managed as part of the Banking Network and the associated income will be included in this segment on a go-forward basis. Net interest income earned for 2008 declined by $209 million, or 6.1%, compared to 2007. The decline in the net interest income was primarily due to lower interest income on loans resulting from the decline in the prime rate that began in late 2007.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $1.0 billion, or 123.1%, in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting the continued deterioration in the residential acquisition and development and commercial real estate portfolios. The economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $685 million, or 441.9%, from 2007 to 2008. The increase during 2008 reflected the deterioration in the residential acquisition and development portfolio, as well as growth in outstanding loans.  

Noninterest income in the Banking Network increased $58 million, or 4.7%, during 2009. The acquisition of the Colonial branches contributed $44 million in noninterest income to the Banking Network. The remaining increase in noninterest income was primarily due to growth in bankcard fees, loan fees, and checkcard fees. In 2008, noninterest income increased $140 million, or 12.8%, primarily due to growth in overdraft fees, checkcard fees, and other nondeposit fees and commissions. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reflected as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), increased $207 million, or 81.5%, and $15 million, or 6.3%, in 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to higher referrals for mortgage lending. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Banking Network during 2009 increased $537 million, or 34.8%, compared to 2008. The acquisition of the Colonial branches created $160 million of additional noninterest expense in 2009 for the Banking Network. The remaining increase of $377 million was primarily due to the increase in credit related expenses primarily in owned real estate expense and FDIC insurance premiums. Comparing 2008 to 2007, noninterest expenses increased $72 million, or 4.9%. Allocated corporate expenses increased $6 million, or 0.9%, in 2009. Comparing 2008 to 2007, allocated corporate expenses increased $112 million, or 19.0%, primarily due to increased allocations for certain corporate overhead functions that were previously not allocated to the business units, and increases for loan administration expense, IT services and operations. The increase related to loan administration expense was the result of a change in the methodology for allocating these expenses between business segments.  

Total identifiable assets for the Banking Network decreased $2.3 billion in 2009, or 3.6%, to a total of $62.8 billion, compared to an increase of $4.5 billion, or 7.3%, in 2008. The loan portfolios declined slightly due to the  

80  

Table of Contents 

 general economic conditions and lack of strong demand for lending products during 2009. Total identifiable assets in 2009 included the assets from the Colonial acquisition except for assets covered by FDIC loss share agreements and other acquired loans, while the 2008 balance included the assets from the acquisition of Haven Trust.  

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $28.2 billion in 2009, up 71.5% from $16.4 billion in 2008. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes portfolio loans on BB&T’s balance sheet and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $73.6 billion at year-end 2009 compared to $59.7 billion at December 31, 2008. Net income attributable to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased by $78 million, or 60.9%, in 2009. This increase was primarily due to strong growth in noninterest income, offset in part by an increase in the economic provision for loan loss. Net income increased only slightly between 2008 and 2007, as strong growth in noninterest income was offset by an increase in the economic provision for loan loss. 2008 results in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment were also aided by the implementation of the Fair Value Option for loans held for sale on January 1, 2008.  

Net interest income for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment totaled $343 million in 2009, up 14.3% compared to $300 million in 2008. Net interest income in 2008 was up 19.5% compared to 2007. The increase in net interest income in 2009 and 2008 was primarily the result of growth in the held for investment loan portfolio and associated lower funding costs.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses was $333 million for 2009, up $199 million, or 148.5%, from a balance of $134 million in 2008. The growth in the provision reflected higher losses in 2009 and the deterioration in residential real estate markets, especially in Florida, Georgia, Northern Virginia/ DC and some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas.  

Noninterest income in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $383 million, or 171.0%, in 2009. This increase is due to record residential mortgage production revenues and improved hedge performance of the mortgage servicing asset. The higher mortgage originations reflect continued benefits from BB&T’s strong position in the market as a reliable lender and the favorable interest rate environment. Noninterest income was up $104 million, or 86.7%, in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase includes the impact of the implementation of the Fair Value Option for loans held for sale, which resulted in an increase of approximately $21 million in noninterest income when compared to 2007. The remaining variance included a $38 million increase in the net mortgage servicing rights hedge results and growth in mortgage production revenue and loan servicing fees. Noninterest expenses incurred in 2009 within the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $44 million, or 52.4%, compared to 2008, and 2008 expenses were up $20 million, or 31.3%, as compared to 2007, primarily reflecting higher incentives associated with the strong sales performance, loan origination costs and foreclosed property expense.  

Total 2009 identifiable assets at $19.0 billion for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased slightly from 2008 and increased $525 million, or 2.8%, from 2008 to 2007. Increases in mortgage loans were due to growth in loan originations in 2009 and 2008.  

Sales Finance  

The net loss from the Sales Finance segment was $12 million in 2009, down from net income of $18 million in 2008. This decline is primarily attributable to a higher economic provision for loan and lease losses and related expenses, which more than offset growth in the overall loan portfolio. For 2008, net income reflected a decline of $16 million, or 47.1%, compared to 2007.  

Net interest income from the Sales Finance segment increased by $7 million, or 5.9%, during 2009 compared to 2008. This is primarily due to $18 million in interest income growth generated by the indirect recreational and marine vehicle portfolio, as well as $8 million in new interest income generated by an automobile loan portfolio acquired in mid-2009. This growth was offset by a $19 million decline in net interest income from the indirect automobile loan portfolio as a result of lower origination levels caused by weak consumer demand. Loan interest margins remained stable as interest rates declined during 2009. During 2008, net interest income decreased by $2 million, compared to 2007. This decrease was due to a slightly lower margin.  

81  

Table of Contents 

The economic provision for loan and lease losses of $90 million was up 125.0% in 2009 after a 90.5% increase to $40 million in 2008. The increase in 2009 reflects higher loss rates and the current weak economic conditions.  

The Sales Finance segment was assessed referral fees of $13 million in 2009 and 2008 to compensate the Banking Network for services. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Sales Finance segment increased 10.7% in 2009 after increasing 12.0% during 2008. Allocated corporate expense increased slightly in 2009 and 2008 compared to the previous years.  

Total identifiable assets for the Sales Finance segment of $6.1 billion increased $14 million, or 0.2%, compared to 2008 and $331 million, or 5.7%, from 2008 to 2007.  

Specialized Lending  

BB&T’s Specialized Lending segment continued to expand during 2009 through strong organic growth and select asset portfolio purchases of certain high performing asset portfolios. Net income from the Specialized Lending segment was $43 million for 2009, up 104.8% compared to 2008. The increase in net income was driven by an asset purchase in insurance premium financing and improved credit performance in consumer auto lending, as well as net interest margin expansion in those businesses. The equipment financing loan and lease portfolio also experienced significant growth in 2009. Net income in 2008 was down $52 million, or 71.2%, compared to 2007 primarily due to a higher provision for credit losses.  

Net interest income totaled $605 million in 2009, an increase of 20.8% compared to 2008. Comparing 2008 to 2007, net interest income increased $48 million, or 10.6%. The growth in net interest income in 2009 and 2008 was a result of strong portfolio growth. Average loans for the Specialized Lending segment grew by $1.6 billion, or 29.6%, to $7.1 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Average loan growth for the segment was $446 million, or 8.7%, in 2008 compared to 2007.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses totaled $332 million in 2009, an increase of $31 million compared to 2008. Comparing 2008 to 2007, the economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $107 million, or 55.2%. The declining rate of growth in the provision for 2009 is primarily attributable to stabilization in the sub-prime auto loan portfolio. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of the clients of Specialized Lending, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries.  

Noninterest income produced by the Specialized Lending segment totaled $119 million in 2009, an increase of $3 million, or 2.6%, compared to 2008. Comparing 2008 to 2007, noninterest income increased $26 million, or 28.9%. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment in 2009 totaled $284 million, an increase of $41 million, or 16.9%, compared to 2008. Comparing 2008 to 2007, noninterest expenses totaled $243 million, an increase of $37 million, or 18.0%. The increases in noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment were due to a combination of internal growth and growth from acquisitions.  

Total identifiable assets for the Specialized Lending segment of $8.2 billion increased $1.6 billion, or 24.2%, between 2008 and 2009 due primarily to internally-generated growth. Comparing 2008 to 2007, total identifiable assets increased $1.0 billion.  

Insurance Services  

Net income from the Insurance Services segment increased $20 million, or 18.5%, in 2009 compared to 2008. Both acquisition and organic growth have contributed to the growth of Insurance Services despite the ongoing soft market conditions being experienced within the insurance industry. Comparing 2008 to 2007, net income declined $17 million, or 13.6%. The 2007 results included a pre-tax gain of $19 million from the sale of an insurance agency operation.  

Noninterest income produced by the Insurance Services segment totaled $1.0 billion during 2009, an increase of $125 million, or 13.8%, compared to 2008. Internal growth combined with the expansion of BB&T’s insurance agency network and insurance brokerage operations were responsible for the growth in noninterest income.  

82  

Table of Contents 

 Insurance Services acquired a total of twelve agencies during 2008 and 2009. The four largest acquisitions were Tapco Underwriters, Inc. in Burlington, NC; UnionBanc Insurance Services, Inc. in California; Oswald Trippe and Co., Inc. and J. Rolfe Davis in Florida, which contributed approximately $100 million in noninterest income. Comparing 2008 to 2007, noninterest income increased $68 million, or 8.1%.  

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $75 million, or 10.8% in 2009 compared to 2008. The overall increase in noninterest expenses within the Insurance Services segment during 2009 principally resulted from the continued expansion of the BB&T insurance agency network through twelve acquisitions being closed over the last 24 months. Comparing 2008 to 2007, noninterest expenses increased $73 million, or 11.7%.  

Financial Services  

Net income from the Financial Services segment increased $64 million, or 66.7%, in 2009. The Financial Services segment experienced positive results from the expansion of its corporate banking initiatives in 2009 along with strong performance from capital markets activities and brokerage operations. Included in this increase was the gain on the sale of its payroll processing business in the fourth quarter as noted below. Financial Services continued to gain traction in its Wealth Division through strong business initiatives with other banking divisions. Net income increased $25 million, or 35.2%, in 2008 based on strong performance in its capital markets activities within Scott & Stringfellow and the general overall growth of the various lines of business within the segment.  

Net interest income for the Financial Services segment totaled $130 million in 2009, an increase of $53 million, or 68.8%, compared to 2008. Comparing 2008 to 2007, net interest income increased $22 million, or 40.0%. The increase in net interest income during 2009 was largely a result of a strong increase in the corporate banking program. Additionally, 2009 benefited from strong deposit growth in the Institutional Services and Scott & Stringfellow lines of business. Corporate banking was also the strongest driver in the overall increase in net interest income in 2008.  

Noninterest income in the Financial Services segment in 2009 totaled $674 million, up $36 million, or 5.6%, compared to $638 million earned during 2008. This increase is primarily attributed to a gain of $27 million realized upon the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business, strong profits in the Capital Markets Fixed Income Sales & Trading business and income from the Wealth Management Division. Noninterest income increased by $85 million, or 15.4%, from 2007 to 2008. The revenue increase in 2008 was partially due to strong revenues from investment banking and brokerage operations, as well as increased revenues from the sale of client derivatives partially offset by lower revenues from trust and investment advisory services related to the market value declines seen in the financial markets. Noninterest expenses of $542 million incurred by Financial Services in 2009 decreased $2 million compared to 2008, after increasing by $63 million in the prior year. The prior year increase in noninterest expenses was largely due to higher incentive costs tied to the strong revenue growth.  

Total identifiable segment assets for Financial Services increased to a total of $3.1 billion at December 31, 2009, compared to $2.9 billion at year-end 2008, which were down from $4.1 billion at December 31, 2007. The fluctuations in assets within the Financial Services segment are largely related to the size of the trading portfolio.  

Treasury  

The Treasury segment is responsible for managing the liquidity position for the Corporation, investing excess funds, and managing interest rate risk. Net income from the Treasury segment of $229 million for 2009 was down $186 million, or 44.8%, from 2008. Net income in the Treasury segment is subject to fluctuations based on the interest sensitivity of the Corporation’s balance sheet, the purchases and sales of securities, and the issuance and retirement of funding vehicles. For 2008, net income of $415 million was up from a loss of $86 million in 2007.  

Net interest income in the Treasury segment can vary due to changing needs of the Corporation, including the size of the investment portfolio, the need for wholesale funding, and income received from derivatives used to hedge the balance sheet. Net interest expense for the Treasury segment was $59 million in 2009 compared to net interest income of $293 million in 2008. Net interest expense for 2009 consisted of $630 million of net interest income and $689 million of net interest expense from the Funds Transfer Pricing (“FTP”) charge. For 2008, net  

83  

Table of Contents 

 interest income for the Treasury segment consisted of $300 million of net interest income and $7 million of net interest expense from the FTP charge.  

During 2009, noninterest income earned by the Treasury segment totaled $326 million, an increase of 23.0%, compared to $265 million earned during 2008. This increase in noninterest income during 2009 included $239 million in gains on the sale of securities. These gains were partially offset by other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) write downs of $7 million. For 2008, net gains on the sale of securities totaled $233 million and OTTI was $54 million. For 2007, noninterest income within the Treasury segment totaled $111 million.  

The provision for income taxes allocated to the Treasury segment during 2009 was $28 million compared to $161 million in 2008 and a benefit of $106 million in 2007. The changes in the taxes allocated to the Treasury segment are a combination of changes in the level of pretax income and tax-exempt income.  

As of December 31, 2009, total identifiable assets in the Treasury segment were $37.5 billion, a slight increase from the prior year. This followed an increase of $13.3 billion, or 55.1%, in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase in assets reflects the initial deployment of the capital invested by the U.S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program.  

Fourth Quarter Results  

Net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $194 million, compared to $307 million for the comparable period of 2008. Diluted net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $.27 per common share compared to $.51 for the same period a year ago. Annualized returns on average assets and average common equity were .47% and 4.52%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to .86% and 8.47%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Results for the fourth quarter of 2009 include a $27 million gain on the sale of payroll processing business, $9 million in loan revaluation adjustments related to the Colonial acquisition and $7 million in net income tax adjustments. In addition, BB&T recorded $9 million of merger related and restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2009 in connection with the acquisition of Colonial. Results for the fourth quarter of 2008 include $66 million in after-tax securities gains, $39 million in after-tax other-than-temporary impairment charges and $17 million in net after tax gains related to a settlement with the IRS in connection with leveraged lease transactions.  

Net interest income amounted to $1.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 24.2% compared to $1.1 billion for the same period of 2008. Noninterest income totaled $970 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, up 20.2% from $807 million earned during the fourth quarter of 2008. The growth in noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period of 2008 was driven by increases in mortgage banking income, service charges on deposits, checkcard fees and other nondeposit fees and commissions. Noninterest income also benefitted from a $38 million increase in the value of various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits and the $27 million gain on the sale of payroll processing business mentioned above. BB&T’s noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2009 totaled $1.4 billion, up 34.5% from the $1.0 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in noninterest expense was largely due to increases of $115 million for foreclosed property, $34 million in FDIC insurance expense, $17 million from increased pension costs, $38 million for post-employment benefits expense that are offset by additional noninterest income and approximately $159 million of growth resulting from purchase acquisitions.  

The fourth quarter 2009 provision for credit losses increased 37.3% to $725 million, compared to $528 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in the provision for credit losses reflects the deterioration in the credit quality of the loan portfolio that has resulted from the ongoing distressed residential real estate markets and economic recession. The increase in the provision for credit losses also reflects higher net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.  

The fourth quarter 2009 provision for income taxes totaled $13 million, a decrease of $12 million compared to $25 million for the same period of 2008. The provision for income taxes declined as a result of lower pre-tax income and the $7 million in income tax adjustments mentioned above.  

The accompanying table, “Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited,” presents condensed information relating to quarterly periods in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.  

84  

Table of Contents 

Table 31  

Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Fourth quarter and third quarter 2009 include credits of $7 million and $12 million, respectively, to the provision for income taxes related to non-taxable gains on the sale of leveraged leases. Fourth quarter 2008 includes a credit of $60 million to the provision for income taxes related to a settlement regarding leveraged leases.  

 (2)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

85  

Table of Contents 

SIX YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY AND SELECTED RATIOS  

(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

86  

Table of Contents 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. BB&T’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the Corporation’s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of BB&T’s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Corporation’s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.  

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Corporation conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the “COSO” criteria. Based on this evaluation under the “COSO” criteria, management concluded that the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Corporation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in enabling the Corporation to record, process, summarize and report, in a timely manner, the information that the Corporation is required to disclose in its Exchange Act reports.  

There was no change in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2009 that has materially affected or is likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.  

The effectiveness of the internal control structure over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2009, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included on page 88, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.  

87  

Table of Contents 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:  

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page 87. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Charlotte, North Carolina  

February 26, 2010  

88  

Table of Contents 

BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS