ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BB&T is a FHC headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. BB&T conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Branch Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries.

Operating Subsidiaries

Branch Bank (Winston-Salem, North Carolina), BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 2,196 offices (as of December 31, 2016). Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include:

•BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation (Charlotte, North Carolina) provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;

•BB&T Insurance Services, Inc. (Raleigh, North Carolina) offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;

•BB&T Investment Services, Inc. (Charlotte, North Carolina) is a registered broker-dealer and offers clients non-deposit investment products, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;

•CRC Insurance Services, Inc. (Birmingham, Alabama) is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide;

•Crump Life Insurance Services, Inc. (Roseland, New Jersey) is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide;

•Grandbridge (Charlotte, North Carolina) specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans;

•McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc. (Birmingham, Alabama) is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial clients, including many Fortune 500 companies;

•Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc. (Florence, South Carolina) and its subsidiaries, which include AFCO Credit Corporation, provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada; and

•Susquehanna Commercial Finance, Inc. (Malvern, Pennsylvania) provides loans and lease financing to commercial and small businesses.

Major Nonbank Subsidiaries

BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including:

•BB&T Securities, LLC (Richmond, Virginia) is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital markets. BB&T Securities, LLC also provides correspondent clearing services to broker-dealers and entities involved in the securities industry;

•Regional Acceptance Corporation (Greenville, North Carolina) specializes in nonprime, indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles; and

•Sterling Capital Management, LLC (Charlotte, North Carolina) is a registered investment advisor, which provides tailored investment management solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies.

4
Services

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients. BB&T’s objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs. BB&T’s insurance operations primarily consist of a wholesale/agency network.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Market Area

The following table reflects BB&T’s deposit market share and branch locations by state:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Excludes home office deposits.

(2)Source: FDIC.gov-data as of June 30, 2016.

(3)As of December 31, 2016. Excludes two branches in Indiana and two in Ohio.

5
BB&T operates in markets that have a diverse employment base covering numerous industries. Management strongly believes that BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. Furthermore, BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive and constantly evolving. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies and insurance companies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and BHCs. Consumers have the opportunity to select from a variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The industry frequently sees merger activity, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. For additional information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies and recent government interventions, see "Market Area" above and "General Business Development" below.

General Business Development

BB&T is a regional FHC and has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expansion of asset size and diversification in terms of revenues and sources of profitability. This strategy encompasses both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses.

Merger and Acquisition Strategy

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. BB&T is not currently pursuing significant mergers or acquisitions, but BB&T will assess future opportunities, primarily within or contiguous to BB&T’s existing footprint, based on market conditions and may pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending businesses and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s acquisition strategy will focus on meeting the following criteria:

•the organization must be a good fit with BB&T’s culture;

•the acquisition must be strategically attractive – meaning that any bank acquisition should be in BB&T’s existing footprint to allow for cost savings and economies of scale or in contiguous states to provide market diversification, or the transaction must be otherwise strategically compelling;

•any risk-related issues would need to be quantified and addressed; and

•the transaction must meet BB&T’s financial criteria.

Regulatory actions, such as the orders more fully discussed in the "BSA/AML and Suspicious Activity" section below, can limit BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s ability to pursue mergers and acquisitions for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities.

On April 1, 2016, BB&T acquired National Penn for total consideration of $1.6 billion. National Penn had 126 financial centers, $10.1 billion of total assets and $6.6 billion of deposits. Also on April 1, 2016, BB&T purchased insurance broker Swett & Crawford from Cooper Gay Swett & Crawford for $461 million in cash.

During 2015, BB&T completed the purchases of Susquehanna Bancshares, Inc. and The Bank of Kentucky Financial Corporation. BB&T also acquired 41 retail branches in Texas from Citigroup. During 2014, BB&T purchased 21 retail branches in Texas from Citigroup. See the "Acquisitions and Divestitures" note in the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information about these transactions.

6
Regulatory Considerations

The extensive regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the DIF and the stability of the financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, BB&T is subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of BB&T and its ability to make distributions to shareholders.

BB&T’s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in state and federal laws and regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including those referred to in this section. Following the November 2016 election, the new administration and members of Congress have publicly disclosed proposals to change certain laws and regulations (e.g., pay ratio disclosure and the DOL fiduciary rule). Proposals to change the laws and regulations are frequently introduced at both the federal and state levels. The likelihood and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on BB&T is impossible to determine with any certainty. 

The description below summarizes the significant state and federal laws to which BB&T currently is subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. The descriptions below do not summarize any possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations. 

Financial Regulatory Reform

During the past several years, there has been a significant increase in regulatory oversight for U.S. financial services firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive, complex and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization. The Dodd-Frank Act has led to numerous and far-reaching changes that affect financial institutions.

Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other laws are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. BB&T will continue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

As a BHC and a FHC under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting requirements of the FRB. Branch Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the NCCOB, the FDIC and the CFPB.

State and federal law govern the activities in which Branch Bank engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Branch Bank is also affected by the actions of the FRB as it implements monetary policy.

In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in securities underwriting, dealing, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, NYSE.

FHC Regulation

Under current federal law, as a BHC, BB&T has elected to become a FHC, which allows it to offer customers virtually any type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including banking and activities closely related thereto, securities underwriting, insurance and merchant banking. In order to maintain its status as a FHC, BB&T and all of its affiliated IDIs must be well-capitalized and well-managed and have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. The FRB has responsibility for overseeing compliance with these requirements. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FHC has a period of time to comply, but during the period of noncompliance, the FRB can place any limitations on the FHC that it believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the FRB determines that a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities.

7
Most of the financial activities that are permissible for FHCs also are permissible for a bank’s "financial subsidiary," except for insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate investments and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducted by a FHC. In order for a financial subsidiary of a bank to engage in permissible financial activities, federal law requires the parent bank (and its sister-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the aggregate consolidated assets of all of that bank’s financial subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or other comparable requirements.

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the FRB is the umbrella regulator for BHCs, but BHC affiliates are principally regulated by functional regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank affiliates, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, may be conducted in the bank without the bank being deemed a "broker" or a "dealer" in securities for purposes of functional regulation. Although states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable areas.

Resolution Planning

FRB and FDIC regulations require "covered companies" such as BB&T and systemically important financial institutions such as Branch Bank to file, maintain and update plans for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure (a "living will"). Both the FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s living wills and are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if deemed necessary. The public portions of the resolution plans are available in the Additional Disclosures section of the Investor Relations site at bbt.investorroom.com/additional-disclosures.

CCAR and Stress Test Requirements

FRB rules require BB&T to submit annual capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios. BB&T is also required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the FRB to monitor progress against the annual capital plan. BB&T may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the FRB and that has not received any objections from the FRB. A capital distribution can only occur if, after giving effect to the distribution, all minimum regulatory capital ratios will be maintained, including a post-stress Basel III CET1 ratio of at least 4.5%. See Table 32 for additional information about Basel III requirements. The FRB did not object to BB&T’s 2016 capital plan.

The FRB conducts an annual supervisory stress test and requires that BB&T conduct a separate mid-cycle stress test, file the results of such test with the FRB and publicly disclose details of the scenario and the impact on its capital. BB&T’s annual and mid-cycle stress test results are available on its website at bbt.investorroom.com/additional-disclosures.

The start date of the annual stress test cycle is January 1 of the following calendar year. The capital plan period starts July 1 of the following calendar year. A BHC can only make capital distributions as provided for in its capital plan.

The FDIC conducts an annual supervisory stress test and requires Branch Bank to conduct annual company-run stress tests. The FDIC has modified the "as-of" dates for financial data that covered banks with more than $10 billion in assets will use to perform their stress tests as well as the reporting dates and public disclosure dates of the annual stress tests. The revisions to the regulations became effective on January 1, 2016.

During January 2017, the FRB finalized a rule modifying the capital plan and stress testing rules for the 2017 cycle. The rule removes the qualitative assessment of CCAR for BHCs with total consolidated assets between $50 billion and $250 billion. For these entities, the rule also reduces certain reporting requirements. The rule also decreases the amount of capital that can be distributed by CCAR banks to shareholders outside of an approved capital plan without seeking prior approval from the FRB. Previously, if an entity did not receive an objection to its capital plan, it could distribute up to 1% of its tier 1 capital above the distributions in its capital plan. The rule reduces that amount to 0.25% of tier 1 capital. The rule also adds a blackout period in the second quarter of each year during which a firm cannot change its capital distribution. While no longer subject to the qualitative assessment, BB&T intends to maintain the processes and infrastructure to facilitate future compliance.

8
Acquisitions

BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquisition activity. Under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB.

Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions.

FRB rules prohibit a financial company from combining with another company if the ratio of the resulting company's liabilities exceeds 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies.

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations

The FRB has enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions.

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the FDIC insurance fund in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the "cross-guarantee" provisions of federal law require IDIs under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the DIF as a result of the insolvency or potential failure of commonly controlled IDIs. The FDIC’s claim for reimbursement under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the IDI or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of subordinated debt.

Banking regulators also have broad enforcement powers over Branch Bank, including the power to impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Branch Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock.

Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The majority of the Parent Company’s revenue is from dividends paid by Branch Bank, which are limited by laws and regulations. In addition, BB&T and Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including regulatory capital minimums and the requirement to remain "well-capitalized" under the prompt corrective action regulations summarized elsewhere in this section. Banking regulators have indicated that dividends should generally only be paid if (1) net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. BB&T’s future capital actions will depend on the FRB’s review of BB&T’s annual capital plans.

North Carolina law states that, provided a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper.

9
The federal banking agencies are required to take "prompt corrective action" in respect of financial institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." To be considered "well-capitalized," an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. Additionally, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards.

In addition, failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver.

Basel III

The U.S. capital requirements follow the accord of the BCBS. The Company currently qualifies as a standardized approach banking organization under the FRB's Basel III capital framework rules. The rules stipulate the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and IDIs, define the components of capital and address other areas affecting banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The rules also address risk weights and other items affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios, and the rules use a more risk-sensitive approach than the pre-Basel III rules.

Institutions with greater than $250 billion in assets or $10 billion in foreign assets are considered advanced approaches banking organizations, which results in a more complex calculation of risk-weighted assets that includes an assessment of the impact of operational risk, among other differences. In addition, advanced approaches institutions have additional reporting requirements and must calculate capital under both the standardized approach and the advanced approaches and use the more conservative result. BB&T would become subject to these requirements upon exceeding either of the asset thresholds.

The Basel III rules, among other things, (1) include a capital measure referred to as CET1; (2) specify that Tier 1 capital consist of Tier 1 common equity and additional Tier 1 capital instruments meeting specified requirements; (3) define Tier 1 common equity narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to Tier 1 common equity and not to the other components of capital; and (4) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments from capital as compared to prior regulations.

The Basel III rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that generally range from 0% for U.S. government securities to 600% for certain equity exposures, with a maximum risk weight classification of 1,250% for certain securitizations. This results in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. In addition, the rules provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increase the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation.

The Basel III rules also establish more conservative ratio levels for well-capitalized status. In addition to the minimum risk-based capital requirements, all banks must hold additional capital, referred to as the capital conservation buffer (which is in the form of common equity), to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to officers. The required amount of the capital conservation buffer will be phased-in annually through January 1, 2019.

Effective January 1, 2016, Branch Bank became subject to the capital conservation buffer, which requires calculation and public disclosure of the amount of the buffer, the eligible retained income and any limitations on distributions and discretionary bonuses resulting from the buffer, including the maximum payout amount for the quarter. The capital conservation buffer requirements do not currently result in any limitations on distributions or discretionary bonuses for Branch Bank.

See the "Liquidity" section in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information about BB&T's liquidity requirements.

See the "Capital" section in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information about BB&T's capital requirements.

10
HMDA Regulations

The CFPB has issued final rules changing the reporting requirements for lenders under the HMDA. The new rules expand the range of transactions subject to these requirements to include most securitized residential mortgage loans and credit lines. The rules also increase the overall amount of data required to be collected and submitted, including additional data points about the applicable loans and expanded data about the borrowers. BB&T will be required to begin collecting the expanded data on January 1, 2018.

FATCA

FATCA was enacted by Congress to target non-compliance by U.S. taxpayers using foreign accounts. FATCA requires foreign financial institutions to report to the IRS information about financial accounts held by U.S. taxpayers or by foreign entities in which U.S. taxpayers hold a substantial ownership interest. Foreign financial institutions not complying with the reporting requirements are subject to a 30% withholding tax on all U.S. sourced payments. BB&T is in compliance with the applicable requirements currently in effect. Beginning January 1, 2019, the regulations will be expanded to include sales of property that can produce certain types of U.S. source income.

Volcker Rule

The Volcker Rule prohibits IDIs and their affiliates from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The rule provides certain exemptions and also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker, or custodian. Banking entities were required to conform proprietary trading activities to the final rule by July 21, 2015.

The rule also imposes limits on certain relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. The FRB extended the compliance deadline to July 21, 2017 for purposes of conforming investments in and relationships with certain funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. Complying with these requirements is not expected to have a material impact on BB&T's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

DIF Assessments

Branch Bank’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly.

The FDIC adopted a final rule that imposes a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of the assessment base, after making certain adjustments, for banks with total assets of at least $10 billion. The surcharge became effective July 1, 2016 and will last for a period currently estimated by the FDIC to be two years but ending no later than December 31, 2018. If the DIF has not reached the required level at that time, then the FDIC will impose a special assessment on institutions with assets greater than $10 billion. The net effect of the new surcharge is estimated to increase BB&T's total annual assessment by an amount within the range of $40 million to $50 million, and the applicable portion is included in results for the third and fourth quarters of 2016.

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Branch Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts.

11
CFPB

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.

The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.

The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including mortgage origination disclosures, minimum underwriting standards and ability to repay, high-cost mortgage lending, and servicing practices. The rules related to ability to repay, qualified mortgage standards and mortgage servicing became effective during 2014, while the escrow and loan originator compensation rules became effective during 2013.

A final rule integrating mortgage loan disclosures required by the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act became effective during October 2015. The final rule consolidated four existing and separate disclosures required under these acts for closed-end credit transactions secured by real property into two forms with a view towards making the mortgage loan disclosures less confusing and more consumer friendly. Branch Bank delivered the functionality required to meet the effective date of October 3, 2015 for the new integrated disclosures.

As a result of these rules, BB&T transferred the management of certain home equity loans from direct retail lending within the Community Banking segment to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment during 2014.

Patriot Act

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions’ operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent and report money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions.

BSA/AML and Suspicious Activity

BB&T is subject to several federal laws that are designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and transactions with persons, companies, or foreign governments designated by U.S. authorities. This category of laws includes the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, and the Patriot Act. 

During December 2016, Branch Bank entered into a consent order with the FDIC and the NCCOB and in January 2017, BB&T entered into a cease and desist order with the FRB and NCCOB. These orders call for corrective actions and enhancements to address certain internal control deficiencies within the BSA/AML Compliance Program. No criminal activity has been identified as the result of such deficiencies, and no financial penalty was levied. BB&T has already taken significant steps towards the improvement of its BSA/AML program, including:

•additional investment into processes and system upgrades to strengthen anti-money laundering controls;

•continued emphasis on education, training and the importance of compliance for all associates; and

•the hiring and placement of a highly experienced BSA/AML professional to oversee these efforts.

12
BB&T expects to continue to devote significant resources to its BSA/AML program, particularly as risks persistently emerge and evolve and as regulatory expectations escalate.

BSA/AML laws and regulations obligate depository institutions and broker/dealers to verify their customers’ identity, conduct customer due diligence, report on suspicious activity, file reports of transactions in currency and conduct enhanced due diligence on certain accounts, individuals and businesses. Depository institutions and broker/dealers are required by their respective federal regulators to maintain policies and procedures in order to ensure compliance with the above obligations. Federal regulators regularly examine such policies and procedures to ensure their adequacy and effectiveness, and the frequency and extent of such examinations and the remedial actions resulting therefrom have been increasing. Non-compliance with BSA/AML laws or failure to maintain adequate policies and procedures can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage, and federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a bank merger, BHC acquisitions or other expansionary activity. 

Privacy

Federal law contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions, including substantial customer privacy protections provided under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. During December 2015, Congress amended the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act privacy provisions to include an exception under which if a financial institution meets certain conditions, it is not required to provide annual privacy notices to customers. In July 2016, the CFPB proposed a rule implementing this provision.

An institution may not provide customers’ nonpublic personal financial information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information by fraudulent or deceptive means.

CRA

The CRA requires Branch Bank’s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: "Outstanding," "Satisfactory," "Needs to Improve" or "Substantial Noncompliance." This assessment is reviewed for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with any acquisition or merger application.

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The FRB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer’s choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for "excessive or chronic" customer use and undertake "meaningful and effective" follow-up action with customers that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs.

Pay Ratio Disclosure

The SEC has adopted amendments to require the disclosure of: (1) the median compensation amount of the annual total compensation of all employees of a registrant (excluding the CEO), (2) the annual total compensation of that registrant's CEO and (3) the ratio of the median of the annual total compensation of all employees (excluding the CEO) to the annual total compensation of the CEO. The rules require such information for the first fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.

13
DOL Fiduciary Rule

During April 2016, the DOL issued a final rule related to fiduciary standards in regards to the investing of clients' retirement assets. The final rule expands the definition of a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Those who provide investment advice to plans, plan sponsors, fiduciaries, plan participants, beneficiaries and IRAs and IRA owners must either avoid payments that create conflicts of interest or comply with the protective terms of an exemption issued by the DOL. Under new exemptions adopted with the rule, financial institutions will be obligated to acknowledge their status and the status of their individual advisers as "fiduciaries." Firms and advisers will be required to make prudent investment recommendations without regard to their own interests, or the interests of those other than the customer; charge only reasonable compensation; and make no misrepresentations to their customers regarding recommended investments. Additionally, the new rule requires certain disclosures to be made to the investor, and ongoing compliance must be monitored and documented. The requirements under the new rule will be phased in from April 10, 2017 to January 1, 2018. The estimated impact for 2017 of additional expense and reduced revenue ranges from $10 million to $15 million.

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements

The FDIC has released a final rule to facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail. The rule requires IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. The requirements under the rule must be in place by April 1, 2020. This rule is expected to result in additional costs to BB&T; however, the amount has not been quantified.

Cybersecurity

Effective December 2015, the CISA is intended to improve cybersecurity in the U.S. by enhanced sharing of information about security threats among the U.S. government and private sector entities, including financial institutions. The CISA also authorizes companies to monitor their own systems notwithstanding any other provision of law, and allows companies to carry out defensive measures on their own systems from cyber attacks. The law includes liability protections for companies that share cyber threat information with third parties so long as such sharing activity is conducted in accordance with CISA.

Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements

During May 2016, several financial regulators jointly issued a proposed rule designed to prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that could encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss. The proposed rule would require the applicable compensation arrangements to be considered against a number of factors, including a requirement that the arrangements contain both financial and non-financial measures of performance. In addition, the requirements would differ based on the size of the institution, and institutions with assets exceeding $50 billion would be subject to mandatory deferral, forfeiture/adjustment and clawback requirements for employees subject to the rule. BB&T is currently reviewing the proposed rule to determine the potential impact. 

Other Regulatory Matters

BB&T is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA, the NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. BB&T periodically receives requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning BB&T’s business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business.

Employees

For the quarter ended December 31, 2016, BB&T had approximately 37,500 full-time equivalent employees, compared to approximately 36,000 full-time equivalent employees for the quarter ended December 31, 2015.

14
Website Access to BB&T’s Filings with the SEC

BB&T’s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website, BBT.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. BB&T’s SEC filings are also available through the SEC’s website at sec.gov.

Corporate Governance

Information with respect to BB&T’s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on BB&T’s website, BBT.com, and includes:

•Corporate Governance Guidelines

•Corporate Board of Directors, including Biographical Information

•Committees of the Corporate Board of Directors and Committee Charters

•Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior Financial Officers and Associates

•Executive Officers, including Biographical Information

•Policy and Procedures for Accounting, Securities and Legal Complaints, including Whistleblower Procedures

•Statement of Political Activity

•Corporate Social Responsibility Report

BB&T intends to disclose any substantive amendments or waivers to the Codes of Ethics for Directors or Senior Financial Officers on its website at BBT.com.

15
Executive Officers

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS