Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

2012 Results  

   •    Safety – Our employee safety results continued to improve in 2012. The employee injury incident rate per 200,000 employee hours declined 9% from 2011, to a new record low. These results reflect employee training, the move to standard work, and extensive efforts to identify and eliminate risk. Our use of technologies such as laser, ultrasound, and acoustic vibration monitoring, which help identify potential rail, wheel and axle failures before they occur contributed to the reduction of our equipment incident rate to 9.38 per million train miles, another best ever result. With respect to public safety, we closed 237 grade crossings in 2012 to reduce our exposure to incidents and continued use of video cameras on our locomotives to analyze public safety incidents. We now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position on over 97% of our through-freight trains. Despite our efforts during 2012, the rate of grade crossing incidents per million train miles increased 13% from 2011. Overall, our 2012 safety results reflect our structured approach to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers and the public.  

   •    Financial Performance – We produced another record-setting year in 2012, generating operating income of $6.7 billion, an 18% increase over 2011. Despite flat volume, core pricing gains of 4.5% and higher fuel surcharge recoveries more than offset inflation and higher depreciation expense to drive the increase. Our operating ratio for 2012 of 67.8% was an all-time best, improving from last year’s operating ratio of 70.7%. Net income of $3.9 billion surpassed our previous milestone set in 2011, translating into earnings of $8.27 per diluted share for 2012.  

   •    Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues grew 6% year-over-year to $19.7 billion. Freight revenues for four of the six commodity groups increased despite flat volume. Volume declines in Coal and Agricultural Products offset double digit volume increases in Automotive and Chemicals. Core pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges drove the growth in freight revenue in 2012 compared to 2011. Fuel surcharges increased due to higher fuel prices, the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months) and new fuel surcharge provisions in renegotiated contracts.  

   •    Network Operations – In 2012, our business mix changed significantly both geographically and by commodity. Nevertheless, by adjusting resources to match market and network requirements, we continued operating an efficient and fluid network. As reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), average train speed increased 4% in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting more efficient operations and relatively mild weather conditions compared to 2011, which included severe winter weather, flooding, and extreme heat and drought that affected various parts of our network during the year. Average terminal dwell time remained flat despite a shift in business mix to more manifest traffic, which requires more switching, resulting in more terminal dwell time. Average rail car inventory decreased slightly, reflecting productivity improvements and ongoing initiatives designed to reduce the number of cars in our fleet. These operational improvements resulted in a record customer satisfaction index in 2012.  

   •    Fuel Prices – Despite consistent average crude oil barrel prices in 2011 and 2012, our price per gallon of diesel fuel consumed increased 3% due to higher crude oil to diesel conversion spreads. The higher spreads increased operating expenses by $105 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume). A 2% decline in gross-ton miles partially offset the higher expenses. Our fuel consumption rate did not change in 2012 from the rate in 2011.  

22  

Table of Contents 

   •    Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled $6.2 billion, reduced by $3.6 billion for cash used in investing activities and a 37% increase in dividends paid, yielding free cash flow of $1.4 billion. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities (adjusted for the reclassification of our receivables securitization facility), less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.  

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Effective January 1, 2010, a new accounting standard required us to account for receivables transferred under our receivables securitization facility as secured borrowings in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and as financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The receivables securitization facility is included in our free cash flow calculation to adjust cash provided by operating activities as though our receivables securitization facility had been accounted for under the new accounting standard for all periods presented.  

2013 Outlook  

   •    Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the communities we serve. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. Derailment prevention and the reduction of grade crossing incidents are critical aspects of our safety programs. We will continue our efforts to increase rail defect detection; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), various industry programs and local community activities across our network.  

   •    Network Operations – We will continue focusing on our six critical initiatives to improve safety, service and productivity during 2013. We are seeing solid contributions from reducing variability, continuous improvements, and standard work. Resource agility allows us to respond quickly to changing market conditions and network disruptions from weather or other events. The Railroad continues to benefit from capital investments that allow us to build capacity for growth and harden our infrastructure to reduce failure.  

   •    Fuel Prices – Uncertainty about the economy makes projections of fuel prices difficult. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue seeking cost recovery from our customers through our fuel surcharge programs and expanding our fuel conservation efforts.  

   •    Capital Plan – In 2013, we plan to make total capital investments of approximately $3.6 billion, including expenditures for Positive Train Control (PTC), which may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan.)  

23  

Table of Contents 

   •    Positive Train Control – In response to a legislative mandate to implement PTC, we expect to spend approximately $450 million during 2013 on developing and deploying PTC. We currently estimate that PTC, in accordance with implementing rules issued by the Federal Rail Administration (FRA), will cost us approximately $2 billion by the end of the project. This includes costs for installing the new system along our tracks, upgrading locomotives to work with the new system, and adding digital data communication equipment to integrate the components of the system.  

   •    Financial Expectations – We are cautious about the economic environment but if industrial production grows approximately 2% as projected, volume should exceed 2012 levels. Even with no volume growth, we expect earnings to exceed 2012 earnings, generated by real core pricing gains, on-going network improvements and operational productivity initiatives. We also expect that a new bonus depreciation program under federal tax laws will positively impact cash flows in 2013.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Operating Revenues  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.  

Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.  

Freight revenues from four of our six commodity groups increased during 2012 compared to 2011. Revenues from coal and agricultural products declined during the year. Our franchise diversity allowed us to take advantage of growth from shale-related markets (crude oil, frac sand and pipe) and strong automotive manufacturing, which offset volume declines from coal and agricultural products. ARC increased 7%, driven by core pricing gains and higher fuel cost recoveries. Improved fuel recovery provisions and higher fuel prices, including the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months), combined to increase revenues from fuel surcharges.  

Freight revenues for all six commodity groups increased during 2011 compared to 2010, while volume increased in all commodity groups except intermodal. Increased demand in many market sectors, with particularly strong growth in chemicals, industrial products, and automotive shipments for the year, generated the increases. ARC increased 12%, driven by higher fuel cost recoveries and core pricing gains. Fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic. Higher fuel prices, volume growth, and new fuel surcharge provisions in renegotiated contracts all combined to increase revenues from fuel surcharges.  

Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated freight revenues of $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion, and $1.2 billion in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Ongoing rising fuel prices and increased fuel surcharge coverage drove the increases. Additionally, fuel surcharge revenue is not entirely comparable to prior periods as we continue to convert portions of our non-regulated traffic to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs.  

24  

Table of Contents 

In 2012, other revenues increased from 2011 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services. Assessorial revenues also increased in 2012 due to container revenue related to an increase in intermodal shipments.  

In 2011, other revenues increased from 2010 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services.  

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.  

25  

Table of Contents 

  Agricultural Products – Lower volume more than offset core pricing gains and increased fuel surcharges as agricultural freight revenue decreased in 2012 versus 2011. Weak export demand for U.S. wheat drove a 19% decrease in wheat shipments year over year, as the foreign wheat market improved significantly from the weather affected crop in 2011. In addition, corn shipments declined 11% for the year, with more significant declines in the fourth quarter, reflecting the impact of the severe drought across the U.S. Lower gasoline demand, reduced exports and higher corn prices decreased ethanol shipments during the second half of the year. Growth in imported beer from Mexico and a strong domestic harvest of fresh potatoes partially offset these declines.    

2012 Agricultural Carloads 

  Fuel surcharges, price improvements and modest volume growth increased agricultural freight revenue in 2011 versus 2010. The federal mandate for higher levels of ethanol in the nation’s fuel supply and new business increased shipments of ethanol by 10% in 2011 versus 2010. Strong export demand for U.S. wheat via Gulf ports in the first half of 2011 was the primary driver of a 6% increase in wheat and food grains shipments for 2011 compared to 2010, despite a 19% decrease in shipments in the second half of 2011 when U.S. grain exports declined. Poor wheat production in some foreign markets drove the export demand during the first six months of the year.  

Automotive – Increased shipments of finished vehicles and automotive parts along with core pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges improved automotive freight revenue from 2011 levels. Higher production and sales levels drove the volume growth. In addition, 2012 shipments compared favorably to 2011 due to lower shipments of international vehicles in 2011 following the disaster in Japan. 

Higher volume, core pricing gains and fuel surcharges improved automotive freight revenue in 2011, from 2010 levels. Although higher production and sales levels during 2011 contributed to volume growth, the disaster in Japan partially offset the increase in shipments. The disruption caused by this event reduced parts shipments in the second quarter and shipments of international vehicles in the second and third quarters. Finished autos shipments were up 7% in 2011 from 2010, aided by a 14% increase in the fourth quarter as the U.S. light-vehicle sales rate was the highest since the second quarter of 2008.    

2012 Automotive Carloads 

  Chemicals – Higher volume, core price improvements and fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2012. Shipments of crude oil primarily from the Bakken, Permian and Eagle Ford Shale formations to the Gulf area increased over three fold, driving the improvement in chemicals shipments. In addition, plastics and industrial chemicals shipments increased as low natural gas prices have made U.S. chemicals more cost competitive globally. Declines in potash due to temporary shutdowns and reduced production at several mines partially offset the increases in chemical shipments during the year.    

2012 Chemicals Carloads 

26  

Table of Contents 

Volume gains, fuel surcharges and price improvements increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2011 versus 2010. In mid-2010, we began moving crude oil shipments from the Bakken formation in North Dakota to facilities in Louisiana. This new business, along with shipments from the Eagle Ford shale formation in south Texas, contributed to a 37% increase in shipments of petroleum products during 2011. Strong domestic demand and robust spring planting increased fertilizer shipments by 9% versus 2010. Additionally, improving market conditions increased demand for industrial chemicals during 2011, driving volume levels up versus 2010.  

  Coal – Lower volume, partially offset by core pricing gains and fuel surcharge recoveries reduced freight revenue from coal shipments in 2012 compared to 2011. Shipments of coal from the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) mines decreased 15% from 2011. Above average coal stockpiles due to an unseasonably warm winter and low natural gas prices, which caused some displacement of coal in electricity production, led to the volume declines. In addition, the loss of two contracts to a competitor contributed to lower volumes from the SPRB. Coal shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines increased 2% versus 2011. Increased export shipments of Colorado and Utah coal in 2012 offset the domestic declines due to higher stockpiles and low natural gas prices.    

2012 Coal Carloads 

Core pricing gains, higher fuel surcharges, and increased volume grew coal freight revenue in 2011 versus 2010 levels. Shipments of coal from the SPRB were up 5% in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting new business to Wisconsin facilities and the start-up of a new power plant near Waco, Texas. Completion of a year-long equipment relocation process at one of the mines in the third quarter of 2011 and minimal production problems elsewhere improved shipments from Colorado and Utah by 3% in 2011 versus 2010. These gains, along with increased exports to Europe and Asia, offset first half production problems and weak demand from eastern coal utilities.  

  Industrial Products – Core pricing improvement, higher volume and additional fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from industrial products in 2012 versus 2011. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand), grew in response to increased horizontal drilling activity for energy products. More construction activity during a relatively mild winter led to higher demand for shipments of lumber, cement and stone compared to 2011. The growth in housing starts throughout 2012 also increased lumber shipments, up 12% from 2011. Steel shipments finished slightly down from 2011 levels as lower demand for export scrap and mine production issues in the second half of the year offset increases in the first half due to higher demand for steel coils and plate for pipe and auto production.    

2012 Industrial Products Carloads 

  Increased volume, fuel surcharges, and core pricing improvement increased freight revenue from industrial products in 2011 versus 2010. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew in response to a dramatic rise in horizontal drilling activity for natural gas and oil, while steel shipments increased due to higher demand for steel coils and plate for automotive and pipe production. In addition, an increase in iron ore export business to China also drove volume growth. Conversely, lower commercial construction activity reduced stone, sand and gravel shipments in 2011 compared to 2010.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Intermodal – Higher fuel surcharges, including improved fuel recovery provisions, core pricing gains and volume growth increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2012. Volume levels from international traffic remained flat year-over-year as the loss of a customer contract in the first half of the year offset modest West Coast import growth. Domestic traffic increased 3% versus 2011 due to better market conditions and continued conversion of traffic from truck to rail. 

Fuel surcharge gains, including better contract provisions for fuel cost recovery, and pricing improvements, partially offset by lower volume, increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2011 compared to 2010. Volume from international traffic decreased 5% in 2011 versus 2010,    

2012 Intermodal Carloads 

  driven by softer economic conditions, reflected in a muted international peak shipping season, which usually starts in the third quarter, and the loss of a customer contract. Conversely, conversions from truck to rail and recovering consumer demand offset competition for domestic shipments, resulting in a 2% volume increase in domestic shipments during 2011.  

Mexico Business – Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business increased 8% to $1.9 billion in 2012 versus 2011. Volume levels for four of the six commodity groups (industrial products and agricultural products declined), were up 5% in aggregate versus 2011, with particularly strong growth in automotive and intermodal shipments.  

Revenue from Mexico business increased 16% to $1.8 billion in 2011 versus 2010. Volume levels increased 9% in aggregate versus 2010, with particularly strong growth in automotive and industrial products. Coal was the one commodity group that declined as one of our customers conducted a supplier contract renewal during the year, shifting transportation modes from rail to truck during the process.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating expenses increased $348 million in 2012 versus 2011. Depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, higher fuel prices and volume-related trucking services purchased by our logistics subsidiaries, contributed to higher expenses during the year. Efficiency gains, volume related fuel savings (2% fewer gallons of fuel consumed) and $38 million of weather related expenses in 2011, which favorably affects the comparison, partially offset the cost increase. 

Operating expenses increased $1.8 billion in 2011 versus 2010. Our fuel price per gallon rose 36% during 2011, accounting for $922 million of the increase. Wage and benefit inflation, volume-related costs, depreciation, and property taxes also contributed to higher expenses. Expenses increased $20 million for costs related to the flooding in the Midwest and $18 million due to the impact of severe heat and    

2012 Operating Expenses 

  drought in the South, primarily Texas. Cost savings from productivity improvements and better resource utilization partially offset these increases. A $45 million one-time payment relating to a transaction with CSX Intermodal, Inc (CSXI) increased operating expenses during the first quarter of 2010, which favorably affects the comparison of operating expenses in 2011 to those in 2010.  

Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Expenses in 2012 were essentially flat versus 2011 as operational improvements and cost reductions offset general wage and benefit inflation and higher pension and other postretirement benefits. In addition, weather related costs increased these expenses in 2011.  

A combination of general wage and benefit inflation, volume-related expenses, higher training costs associated with new hires, additional crew costs due to speed restrictions caused by the Midwest flooding and heat and drought in the South, and higher pension expense drove the increase during 2011 compared to 2010.  

Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Higher locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.22 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2012, compared to $3.12 in 2011, increased expenses by $105 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 2% in 2012 versus 2011, driving expense down. The fuel consumption rate was flat year-over-year.  

Higher locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.12 (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2011, compared to $2.29 per gallon in 2010, increased expenses by $922 million. In addition, higher gasoline prices for highway and non-highway vehicles also increased year-over-year. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, increased 5% in 2011 versus 2010, driving expense up by $122 million.  

Purchased Services and Materials – Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment  

29  

Table of Contents 

 maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Expenses for contract services increased $103 million in 2012 versus 2011, primarily due to increased demand for transportation services purchased by our logistics subsidiaries for their customers and additional costs for repair and maintenance of locomotives and freight cars.  

Expenses for contract services increased $106 million in 2011 versus 2010, driven by volume-related external transportation services incurred by our subsidiaries, and various other types of contractual services, including flood-related repairs, mitigation and improvements. Volume-related crew transportation and lodging costs, as well as expenses associated with jointly owned operating facilities, also increased costs compared to 2010. In addition, an increase in locomotive maintenance materials used to prepare a portion of our locomotive fleet for return to active service due to increased volume and additional capacity for weather related issues and warranty expirations increased expenses in 2011.  

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting ongoing capital spending, increased depreciation expense in 2012 compared to 2011.  

A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting ongoing capital spending, increased depreciation expense in 2011 compared to 2010. Higher depreciation rates for rail and other track material also contributed to the increase. The higher rates, which became effective January 1, 2011, resulted primarily from increased track usage (based on higher gross ton-miles in 2010).  

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Increased automotive and intermodal shipments, partially offset by improved car-cycle times, drove an increase in our short-term freight car rental expense in 2012. Conversely, lower locomotive lease expense partially offset the higher freight car rental expense.  

Costs increased in 2011 versus 2010 as higher short-term freight car rental expense and container lease expense offset lower freight car and locomotive lease expense.  

Other – Other expenses include personal injury, freight and property damage, destruction of equipment, insurance, environmental, bad debt, state and local taxes, utilities, telephone and cellular, employee travel, computer software, and other general expenses. Other costs in 2012 were slightly higher than 2011 primarily due to higher property taxes. Despite continual improvement in our safety experience and lower estimated annual costs, personal injury expense increased in 2012 compared to 2011, as the liability reduction resulting from historical claim experience was less than the reduction in 2011.  

Higher property taxes, casualty costs associated with destroyed equipment, damaged freight and property and environmental costs increased other costs in 2011 compared to 2010. A one-time payment of $45 million in the first quarter of 2010 related to a transaction with CSXI and continued improvement in our safety performance and lower estimated liability for personal injury, which reduced our personal injury expense year-over-year, partially offset increases in other costs.  

Non-Operating Items  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Income – Other income decreased in 2012 versus 2011 due to lower gains from real estate sales and higher environmental costs associated with non-operating properties, partially offset by an interest payment from a tax refund.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Other income increased in 2011 versus 2010 due to higher gains from real estate sales, lower environmental costs associated with non-operating properties and the comparative impact of premiums paid for early redemption of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2010.  

Interest Expense – Interest expense decreased in 2012 versus 2011 reflecting a lower effective interest rate in 2012 of 6.0% versus 6.2% in 2011 as the debt level did not materially change in 2012.  

Interest expense decreased in 2011 versus 2010 due to a lower weighted-average debt level of $9.2 billion versus $9.7 billion. The effective interest rate was 6.2% in both 2011 and 2010.  

Income Taxes – Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2012 compared to 2011. Our effective tax rate for 2012 was relatively flat at 37.6% compared to 37.5% in 2011.  

Income taxes were higher in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate remained relatively flat at 37.5% in 2011 compared to 37.3% in 2010.  

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS  

We report key performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily inventory of freight cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.  

Operating/Performance Statistics  

Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR, as well as other performance measures, are included in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average Train Speed – Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), increased 4% in 2012 versus 2011. Efficient operations and relatively mild weather conditions during the year compared favorably to 2011, during which severe winter weather, flooding, and extreme heat and drought affected various parts of our network. We continued operating a fluid and efficient network while handling essentially the same volume and adjusting operations to accommodate increased capital project work on our network compared to 2011. The extreme weather challenges in addition to increased carloadings and traffic mix changes, led to a 2% decrease in average train speed in 2011 compared to 2010.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time – Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011, despite a shift in traffic mix to more manifest shipments, which require more switching at terminals. Average terminal dwell time increased 3% in 2011 compared to 2010. Additional volume, weather challenges, track replacement programs, and a shift of traffic mix to more manifest shipments, which require additional terminal processing, all contributed to the increase.  

Average Rail Car Inventory – Average rail car inventory is the daily average number of rail cars on our lines, including rail cars in storage. Lower average rail car inventory reduces congestion in our yards and sidings, which increases train speed, reduces average terminal dwell time, and improves rail car utilization. Despite a shift in traffic mix from coal to shale-related and automotive shipments with longer  

31  

Table of Contents 

 cycle times, productivity improvements reduced average rail car inventory by 1% in 2012 compared to 2011. Average rail car inventory decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, as we continued to adjust the size of our freight car fleet.  

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles declined 2% in 2012 compared to 2011, while revenue ton-miles decreased 4% and carloads remained relatively flat. Changes in commodity mix drove the year-over-year variances between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads. Gross and revenue-ton-miles increased 5% in 2011 compared to 2010, driven by a 3% increase in carloads and mix changes to heavier commodity groups, notably a 5% increase in coal shipments.  

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 2.9 points to a record low of 67.8% in 2012 versus 2011. Core pricing gains, improved fuel recovery provisions, efficient operations and cost reductions more than offset the impact of inflationary pressures. Our operating ratio increased 0.1 points to 70.7% in 2011 versus 2010. Higher fuel prices, inflation and weather related costs, partially offset by core pricing gains and productivity initiatives, drove the increase.  

Employees – Employee levels increased 2% in 2012 versus 2011. Work related to the increase in capital investment, including positive train control, accounted for over half of the increase. Additionally, the shift in our traffic mix required more resources in the Southern region to support the growth in shale-related shipments. Employee levels were up 5% in 2011 versus 2010, driven by a 3% increase in volume levels, a higher number of trainmen, engineers, and yard employees receiving training during the year, and increased work on capital projects.  

Customer Satisfaction Index – Our customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. We believe that improvement in survey results in 2012 generally reflects customer recognition of our service quality supported by our capital investment program.  

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute  

32  

Table of Contents 

 for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables on the previous page provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. Our 2012 ROIC improved 1.6 points compared to 2011, primarily as a result of higher earnings.  

Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 6.0% and 6.2% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2012 debt to capital ratios decreased as a result of a $1.3 billion increase in equity from December 31, 2011, driven by higher earnings.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of December 31, 2012, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.8 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2012. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2012. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $600 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $100 million as of December 31, 2012, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. The receivables securitization facility obligates us to maintain an investment grade bond rating. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The Company’s $1.8 billion revolving credit facility is intended to back Union Pacific’s ability to issue commercial paper and is an emergency back-up source of liquidity. The Company has no current intentions of borrowing under this facility.  

33  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had a working capital surplus. This reflects a strong cash position, which provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

Higher net income in 2012 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2011, partially offset by lower tax benefits from bonus depreciation (as explained below) and payments for past wages based on national labor negotiations settled earlier this year.  

Higher net income and lower cash income tax payments in 2011 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2010. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2011, and 50% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2012. As a result of the Act, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011 income tax expense. This deferral decreased 2011 income tax payments, thereby contributing to the positive operating cash flow. In future years, however, additional cash will be used to pay income taxes that were previously deferred. In addition, the adoption of a new accounting standard in January of 2010 changed the accounting treatment for our receivables securitization facility from a sale of undivided interests (recorded as an operating activity) to a secured borrowing (recorded as a financing activity), which decreased cash provided by operating activities by $400 million in 2010.  

Investing Activities  

Higher capital investments in 2012 drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2011. Included in capital investments in 2012 was $75 million for the early buyout of 165 locomotives under long-term operating and capital leases during the first quarter of 2012, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions.  

Higher capital investments partially offset by higher proceeds from asset sales in 2011 drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2010.  

34  

Table of Contents 

The tables below detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital Plan – In 2013, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $3.6 billion, which may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. We expect to use over 60% of our 2013 capital investments to replace and improve existing capital assets. Among our major investment categories are replacing and improving track infrastructure; upgrading our locomotive and freight car fleet, including acquisition of 100 locomotives and 900 freight cars, primarily large covered hoppers, gondolas, auto racks and refrigerated box cars; improving technology, including investing in PTC; and other capital projects. Additionally, we will continue increasing our network and terminal capacity; for example, to balance terminal capacity with more mainline capacity from our track expansion in the Southern region, we are constructing a rail facility at Santa Teresa, New Mexico, that initially will include a run-through and fueling facility and an intermodal ramp.  

We expect to fund our 2013 cash capital investments by using some or all of the following: cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we expect will enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2012 versus 2011. Dividend payments increased by $309 million, reflecting our higher dividend rate, and common stock repurchases increased by $56 million. Our debt levels did not materially change from last year after a decline in debt levels from 2010. Therefore, less cash was used in 2012 for debt activity than in 2011.  

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2011 versus 2010. Higher dividend payments in 2011 of $837 million compared to $602 million in 2010, reflecting our increased dividend rate and the repurchase of $1.4 billion of our common stock, a $169 million increase from 2010 repurchases, drove the increase. We used less cash to reduce outstanding debt in 2011, which partially offset this increase.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Credit Facilities – On December 31, 2012, we had $1.8 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2012. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility matures in 2015 under a four year term and requires the Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 (and at all times during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant.  

The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2012, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $39.8 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.  

During 2012, we issued and repaid commercial paper of $50 million. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.  

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we reclassified as long-term debt $100 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis.  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

For each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 10.4, 8.4, and 6.9, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)  

Common Shareholders’ Equity  

Dividend Restrictions – Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $15.1 billion and $13.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Share Repurchase Program  

Effective April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2012, we repurchased a total of $7.1 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs. The table below represents shares repurchased under the new repurchase program, except for the first quarter of 2011 which represent shares repurchased under the previous program.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management’s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings – Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.  

During 2012, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  Date   Description of Securities 

  June 11, 2012    

$300 million of 2.95% Notes due January 15, 2023 

$300 million of 4.30% Notes due June 15, 2042  

We used the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2012, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.4 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.  

On May 22, 2012, we borrowed $100 million under a 4-year-term loan (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and change of control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.  

During the third and fourth quarters of 2012, we acquired 343 locomotives by exercising early buy-out rights in certain operating and capital lease agreements. Following the acquisition of the locomotives, we sold them to financing parties and entered into capital lease financing agreements with these parties. We did not recognize any gains or losses as a result of these transactions. Capital lease obligations totaling $286 million are reported in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt at December 31, 2012.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Debt Exchange – On June 23, 2011, we exchanged $857 million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2013 and 2019 (Existing Notes) for $750 million of 4.163% notes (New Notes) due July 15, 2022, plus cash consideration of approximately $267 million and $17 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the term of the New Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $6 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2011.  

The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Debt Redemptions – On November 30, 2012, we redeemed all $450 million of our outstanding 5.45% notes due January 31, 2013. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $4 million.  

On April 28, 2012, we redeemed all $100 million of our outstanding 5.70% Tooele County, Utah Hazardous Waste Treatment Revenue Bonds due November 1, 2026. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012.  

On December 19, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012, and all $300 million of our outstanding 6.125% notes due January 15, 2012. The redemptions resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $5 million.  

On March 22, 2010, we redeemed $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $16 million in the first quarter of 2010.  

On November 1, 2010, we redeemed all $400 million of our outstanding 6.65% notes due January 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a $5 million early extinguishment charge.  

Receivables Securitization Facility – Under the receivables securitization facility, the Railroad sells most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary. UPRI may subsequently transfer, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in eligible accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to transfer undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the facility was $100 million at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $1.1 billion of accounts receivable at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. At both December 31, 2012 and 2011, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $1.1 billion. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  

The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would not change as of December 31, 2012. Should our  

38  

Table of Contents 

 credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to discontinue the facility.  

The Railroad collected approximately $20.1 billion and $18.8 billion of receivables during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.  

The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $3 million, $4 million and $6 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

The investors have no recourse to the Railroad’s other assets, except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.  

In July 2012, the receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.  

Subsequent Event – On January 2, 2013, we transferred an additional $300 million in undivided interest to investors under the receivables securitization facility, increasing the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors from $100 million to $400 million.  

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments  

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.  

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,848 million and unamortized discount of $(365) million. Includes an interest component of $5,123 million.  

 [b]  Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.  

 [c]  Represents total obligations, including interest component of $593 million.  

 [d]  Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, locomotives, ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

 [e]  Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.  

 [f]  Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2012. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.  

39  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2012.  

 [b]  $100 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized at December 31, 2012, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in July 2013.  

 [c]  Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.  

 [d]  None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2012.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Guarantees – At December 31, 2012, we were contingently liable for $307 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $2 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  

OTHER MATTERS  

Labor Agreements – Approximately 86% of our 45,928 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. During the year, we concluded the most recent round of negotiations, which began in 2010, with the ratification of new agreements by several unions that continued negotiating into 2012. All of the unions executed similar multi-year agreements that provide for higher employee cost sharing of employee health and welfare benefits and higher wages. The current agreements will remain in effect until renegotiated under provisions of the Railway Labor Act. The next round of negotiations will begin in early 2015.  

Inflation – Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments – We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.  

Market and Credit Risk – We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Determination of Fair Value – We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.  

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.  

At December 31, 2012, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 3.4% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2013 than our December 31, 2012 variable rate, which was approximately 1.1%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $3 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2012.  

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2012, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2012. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.  

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges – We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.  

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt’s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.  

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges – We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had reductions of $1 million and $2 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.  

Accounting Pronouncements – On January 1, 2012, we adopted 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-05) which requires presentation of the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement or as two consecutive statements and eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity. The standard does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income, how such items are measured or when they must be reclassified to net income. Also, in December of 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassification of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 (ASU 2011-12). On February 5, 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2013-02, Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which adds additional disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This ASU will be effective for the first interim reporting period in 2013.  

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our  

41  

Table of Contents 

 consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.  

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.  

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.  

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.  

Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value. Approximately 90% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims, and approximately 10% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $334 million to $368 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation.  

Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Asbestos – We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:  

   •    The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.  

   •    The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.  

   •    The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.  

   •    The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.  

Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $139 million to $149 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.  

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2012, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Environmental Costs – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 284 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 32 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.  

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At December 31, 2012, none of our environmental liability was discounted, while less than 1% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.0% at December 31, 2011.  

Our environmental liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  

Property and Depreciation – Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable  

44  

Table of Contents 

 asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.  

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:  

   •    Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;  

   •    Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;  

   •    Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and  

   •    Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.  

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2012, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from approximately 15 years to approximately 30 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.  

Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.  

Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $58 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $62 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in changes in depreciation rates for some asset classes. Based on these changes, depreciation expense will increase approximately 3% to 4% in 2013 versus 2012.  

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.  

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is  

45  

Table of Contents 

 unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.  

Income Taxes – We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $340 million.  

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2012 and 2011, there were no valuation allowances.  

We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate.  

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  

   •    Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plans’ expected benefit payments.  

   •    Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  

   •    Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.  

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2012 and the estimated impact on 2012 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

46  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our net periodic pension cost is expected to increase to approximately $111 million in 2013 from $89 million in 2012. The increase is driven mainly by a decrease in the discount rate to 3.78%, Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to increase to approximately $15 million in 2013 from $13 million in 2012. The increase in our net periodic OPEB cost is primarily driven by a decrease in the discount rate to 3.48%.  

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION  

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the CEO’s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption “2013 Capital Expenditures” in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5; and statements and information set forth under the captions “2013 Outlook” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Item 7, and (B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans (including statements set forth in Item 2 as to expectations related to our planned capital expenditures); expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words, phrases or expressions.  

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.  

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking  

47  

Table of Contents 

 statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk