Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Critical Accounting Policies

In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long-term engineering and construction-type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entity’s results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 – Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures—In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress as of the balance sheet dates. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate the possible effects of variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and/or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.

We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.

The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.

Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.

As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third-party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate 

Page32
from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In evaluating the Company's joint ventures (also referred to as "variable interest entities", or "VIEs") for accounting and consolidation purposes, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not the Company has a “controlling financial interest” in the VIE. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, the Company assesses each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and whether the Company, another entity, or multiple entities have the power to direct those activities.

 If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties, then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE.

For the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest. There were no changes in facts and circumstances in the period that caused the Company to reassess the method of accounting for its VIEs.

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others— We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Like all option-pricing models, the Black-Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions with measures external to the Company, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units determined using Monte Carlo Simulations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.

Accounting for Pension Plans— The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans’ assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 – Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 range from 2.4% to 8.5%; this compares to a range of 2.7% to 7.5% for fiscal 2012. We believe the range of rates selected for fiscal 2013 reflects the long-term returns expected on the plans’ assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans’ assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011 to a range of 0.6% to 8.4% in fiscal 2012. These assumptions represent the Company’s best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.

Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (“PBO”) at September 28, 2012 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $100.8 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $24.4 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2013 would be lower (higher) by approximately $8.9 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $3.5 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used.

Page33
Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance— In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers’ compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such liabilities in our consolidated results of operations.

In addition, as a contractor providing services to the U.S. federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.

Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment— The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as “Europe” and “Non-Europe”. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2012 Form 10-K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and/or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.

Our geography-based reporting units reflect the Company’s organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.

U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. The valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.

For fiscal years 2011 and 2010 , we used a market approach for valuing our reporting units. Under this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after-tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Company’s overall average market earnings multiple.

The key inputs used in the valuation model were the after-tax earnings of our reporting units and the Company’s market-driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011 and 2010 were approximately 18 and 14, respectively. 

For fiscal year 2012, we used both an income approach and a market approach to test our goodwill for possible impairment. Such approaches require us to make estimates and judgments. Under the income approach, fair vale is determined by using the discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Under the market approach, the fair value of our reporting units is determined by reference to guideline companies that are reasonably comparable to our reporting units; the fair values are estimated based on the valuation multiples of the invested capital associated with the guideline companies. In assessing whether there is an indication that the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, we utilize the results of both valuation techniques and consider the range of fair values indicated. The fair values for each reporting unit exceeded the respective book values by over 30%. The key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units in our testing were: 

Income Approach

•Company financial projections for fiscal years 2012 to 2015

•Weighted average cost of capital of 12%

•Residual period growth rate of 3%

Page34
Market Approach

With respect to the market approach, the Company used multiples ranging from 6.2 to 8.0 of EBITDA (generally, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization), and from 7.3 to 9.6 for EBIT (generally, earnings before interest and taxes) for guideline publicly traded companies reasonably comparable to the Company's reporting units applied to the trailing twelve months results of operations for each of our reporting units.

It is possible that changes in market conditions, economy, facts and circumstances, judgments, and assumptions used in estimating the fair value could change, resulting in possible impairment of goodwill in the future. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.

The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in the third quarter of our fiscal year. The Company will test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010.

Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 28, 2012 or September 30, 2011.

Fiscal 2012 — Overview

The Company’s net earnings increased $47.9 million, or 14.5%, from $331.0 million for fiscal 2011 to $379.0 million for fiscal 2012. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 is a one-time, after-tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Company's intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and other related assets ("pelletizing gain"). The sale was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding the pelletizing gain, the Company's net earnings for fiscal 2012 grew 13.3% from the prior year. 

Although any fiscal 2012 information that excludes the pelletizing gain is non-U.S. GAAP, we use such information in this MD&A because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Company’s current financial performance and operating trends.

In spite of the difficult economic environment that continued to plague many of the end-markets that we serve, the Company was able to grow net earnings by 13.3% and revenues by 4.9% from the prior year. This growth was facilitated by increased activity across several of the major markets in which our clients operate, including the hydrocarbons business (refining and upstream oil and gas), chemicals and polymers, mining and minerals, and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. This growth occurred principally within the technical, professional services areas of our business.

 Backlog at September 28, 2012 increased $1.62 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.91 billion. Backlog at September 28, 2012 includes new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & Gas - Upstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets.

Page35
Results of Operations

General

Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical professional services and field services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:

•Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);

•Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);

•Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct-hire construction and construction management services); and

•Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).

The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single-responsibility, design-build contracts, to services required in the post start-up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.

The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page36
We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recorded net earnings of $379 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.

Revenues increased $512.1 million, or 4.9%, from $10.38 billion for fiscal 2011 to $10.89 billion for fiscal 2012.

Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $243.6 million, or 16.7%, from $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas had an impact on the chemicals market in fiscal 2012. Because there is now a large source of feedstock available outside refineries which can grow independently of the refining infrastructure, we believe more projects are now economically viable and capital is being deployed to develop these opportunities. Furthermore, our clients are looking at various options to monetize natural gas.

Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets increased $171.6 million, or 42.4%, from $404.7 million for fiscal 2011 to $576.3 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to a number of new and continuing projects, including projects relating to vaccine production facilities. Although we view this market as being steady, we see growth prospects in the areas of biotechnology-based drug development in Europe and North America and for secondary manufacturing expansion in Asia and South America.

Revenues from clients operating in the Refining—Downstream market increased $123.7 million, or 5.5%, from $2.26 billion for fiscal 2011 to $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase was due primarily to higher business volume principally within the Company's operations in the U.S. and Canada. We believe the level of profits realized by our refinery clients will help drive new capital projects, particularly as refiners assess possible changes in their crude slate and the need to revamp decades-old facilities to meet changing demand and the continuing effects of recent environmental regulations. We believe the Refining - Downstream market will remain strong in fiscal 2013.

Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $100.9 million, or 22.5%, from $449.2 million for fiscal 2011 to $550.1 million for fiscal 2012. This increase is due primarily to the inclusion of the revenues of the Aker Entities for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011. The "Aker Entities" refer to certain businesses that were acquired in separate transactions that were completed in February and April 2011, and which are described in more detail in Note 3—Business Combinations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we see opportunities to grow this business in fiscal 2013, our clients in this market have been affected negatively by falling spot prices for iron ore, coking, and thermal coal and weaker commodity prices - albeit these declines have occurred from prices that were generally high from a historical perspective. Further influencing this market is continued European banking instability, the weak U.S. recovery, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Despite this cooling market we believe that we are well positioned to capture additional market share during fiscal 2013, particularly in the area of small-cap projects and maintenance-driven work.

Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and Gas—Upstream market increased $37.1 million, or 4.9%, from $753.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $790.5 million for fiscal 2012. The Canadian oil and gas business continues to improve. The Company anticipates this market to remain strong during fiscal 2013. Projections continue to show a strong oil price forecast 

Page37
which should keep the market moving forward. We also anticipate an increase in our field services activities for clients in this market in fiscal 2013.

National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2012 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. We believe that uncertainties associated with sequestration (i.e., that mechanism within the Budget Control Act of 2011 that can trigger automatic U.S. government spending cuts in the event the U.S. Congress and the President fail to to agree on a budget by the end of calendar 2012) caused several agencies to slow the release of work in 2012. We believe the impact to the Company, if any, of sequestration, should it occur, will likely begin in late fiscal 2013. Nevertheless, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single-award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC-type awards. 

Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $49.6 million, or 5.5%, from $893.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $844.0 million for fiscal 2012. In general, we see a shift in this industry group towards projects for clients in the private sector; driven by a continuing decline in government spending. Growth in the private sector business is coming from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects. We anticipate continued growth in fiscal 2013.

Direct costs of contracts increased $344.6 million, or 3.9%, from $8.82 billion during fiscal 2011 to $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.

Pass-through costs increased $209.9 million, or 9.9%, from $2.12 billion during fiscal 2011 to $2.33 billion for fiscal 2012. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues however, decreased $67.2 million, or 1.5%, from $4.50 billion during fiscal 2011 to $4.43 billion during fiscal 2012. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 85.0% for fiscal 2011. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to improved margins for our project services (margins relating to our field services were virtually unchanged). 

Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2012 increased by $90.3 million, or 8.7%, to $1.13 billion, compared to $1.04 billion for fiscal 2011. These increases were due primarily to the SG&A expenses attributable to acquired businesses.

Operating profit was $596.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $518.9 million, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.5% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.0% in fiscal 2011. Improved margins for our Project Services contributed to this increase.

Interest income during fiscal 2012 increased $1.1 million as compared to the prior year. Contributing to this 

Page38
increase was higher average cash balances on deposit in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.

Interest expense for fiscal 2012 increased $2.9 million, as compared to fiscal 2011. Interest expense in both fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase is due primarily to the inclusion of interest expense associated with acquisition indebtedness for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011.

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 35.1% in fiscal 2011. In general, the lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 is due to the changing geographical source of our earnings combined with an increase in the utilization of U.S. foreign tax credits. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the U.S., and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the U.S. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the loss recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the “SIVOM Judgment”). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Company’s long-term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.

Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non-U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Company’s current financial performance and operating trends.

The following table reconciles the Company’s fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively.

Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to 

Page39
the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Oil & Gas – Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America.

Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass-through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. 

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass-through costs.

SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to management’s efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.

Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment).

Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011.

Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully.

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. 

Page40
Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 28, 2012 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office building in Houston, Texas. Please refer to Note 10—Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2013, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.

(c)Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012.

(d)Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 28, 2012; primarily accounts payable and accrued payroll.

(e)Determined based on borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 2012 using the interest rates in effect at that time and concluding with the expiration date of the 2012 Facility.

Backlog

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.

The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 28, 2012 increased by$1.6 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.9 billion from $14.3 billion at September 30, 2011. The increase in backlog from September 30, 2011 to September 28, 2012 was due primarily to new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & Gas—Upstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets.

Page41
In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2012.

While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues.

Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 22.9% of total backlog), $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), and $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog) at September 28, 2012, September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2010, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).

Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $8.6 billion, or 54.0%, of total backlog at September 28, 2012 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.

Effects of Inflation

The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At September 28, 2012, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $1.03 billion of cash and cash equivalents, and $664.6 million of available borrowing capacity under our $1.21 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.

During fiscal 2012, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $126.8 million from $905.6 million at September 30, 2011 to $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $33.2 million during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2012, our operating activities contributed $299.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and the effects of exchange rate changes added another $10.9 million. These increases in cash flows were offset in part by net cash uses of $181.1 million for investing activities and $2.7 million for financing activities. 

Operations provided net cash of $299.8 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $236.5 million and $223.6 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $63.3 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a $55.7 million increase in net earnings attributable to the Group and a $22.9 million favorable change in the Company's working capital accounts, offset in part by a $16.9 million change relating to deferred income taxes.

Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost-plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass-through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Company’s working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients — a substantial portion of which is for project-related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.

This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique to our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. The changes in cash flows relating to our working capital accounts were due simply to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts and is not indicative of any known trend or fundamental change to the underlying business. There were only minor changes within the components of our working capital accounts during fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011. We still continue to experience delays in certain payments and have seen an increase in the length of payment terms with certain customers. We believe that this situation does not present a significant risk to the Company's cash flows. We believe the risk of not collecting substantially all of the Company's outstanding receivables is remote. Though the Company provides services in a number of countries outside the U.S., we believe our credit risk is not significant. Our private sector customers are comprised principally of large, well 

Page42
known, and well established multi-national companies. Our government customers are comprised of national, state, and local agencies located principally in the U.S. and the U.K. We have not historically experienced significant collection issues with either of our governmental or non-governmental customers. Furthermore, our largest government customer in the U.K. provides advance payments to the Company.

We used $181.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2012. This compares to $801.8 million and $398.5 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $620.7 million decrease in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due to to a decline in merger and acquisition activity.

Additions to property and equipment totaled $102.6 million, $98.7 million, and $49.1 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Included in fiscal 2012 activity are significant expenditures for system software and hardware upgrades (relating principally to the businesses we recently acquired) and leasehold improvements (relating primarily to the consolidation of certain office space in one major market in the U.S., and the expansion of office space in several locations in the U.S. and overseas). Included in the fiscal 2011 activity was a $49.1 million addition to property plant and equipment related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. 

Our financing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $2.7 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $556.9 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $559.7 million net decrease in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the overall higher level of borrowing activity that occurred last year in support of the Company's merger and acquisition activity. 

The Company had $1.03 billion of cash and short term equivalents at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, approximately $779.5 million was held in the U.S. and $253.0 million was held outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Eurozone, and Australia. Other than the tax cost of repatriating funds held outside the U.S. to the U.S. (see Note 9—Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), there are no impediments to repatriating these funds to the U.S.

On March 29, 2012, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $1.21 billion unsecured, revolving credit facility (the "2012 Facility") with a syndicate of large, U.S. domestic and international banks and financial institutions. The 2012 Facility replaces and refinances the Company's previous revolving credit facility originally entered into by the Company on December 15, 2005 (the "2005 Facility"). Effective with the closing of the 2012 Facility, all commitments under the 2005 Facility were terminated and were refinanced under the 2012 Facility. The total amount utilized under the 2012 Facility at September 28, 2012 was $540.4 million ($528.3 million in the form of direct borrowings and $12.1 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). The 2012 Facility has a five year maturity. Please refer to Note 6—Borrowings of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the 2012 Facility.

We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $1.03 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 28, 2012, compared to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. Our consolidated working capital position at September 28, 2012 was $1.87 billion; an increase of $853.5 million from September 30, 2011. Contributing to this increase in working capital in fiscal 2012 was the refinancing of $566.0 million of short-term debt under the the 2012 Facility.

Additionally, there was $664.6 million of borrowing capacity available at September 28, 2012 under the 2012 Facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on-hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.

The Company had $224.9 million of letters of credit outstanding at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, $12.1 million had been issued under the 2012 Facility and $212.7 million were issued under separate, committed and uncommitted letter-of-credit facilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off-balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Page43
New Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2012-02—Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. ASU 2012-02 amends Topic 350 of the FASB's Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") regarding how entities test indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for possible impairment. ASU 2012-02 permits entities first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test pursuant to ASC Subtopic 350-30. If the entity determines that is is more likely than not that such asset is not impaired based on its qualitative assessment, no further testing is required. The amendments in ASU 2012-02 are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2012-02 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

In December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011-12—Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05. ASU 2011-12 amends Topic 220 of the ASC as that Topic was affected by ASU 2011-05. ASU 2011-05 required entities to, among other things, present reclassification adjustments and the effect of such adjustment on the face of the financial statements where net earnings is presented, by component of net earnings, and on the face of the financial statements where other comprehensive income is presented, by component of other comprehensive income. The effect of ASU 2011-12 is to defer the effective date of certain of the presentation requirements of ASU 2011-05 in order to give the FASB more time to deliberate such requirements. The amendments in ASU 2011-12 are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2011-05 so that entities will not be required to comply with the presentation requirements in Update 2011-05 that ASU 2012-12 is deferring.

Also in December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011-11—Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011-11 amends Topic 210 of the ASC and requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of their financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on their respective financial positions. The scope of this ASU includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending agreements. Entities are required to apply the provisions of ASU 2011-11 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011-11 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08—Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011-08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011-08 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05—Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011-05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011-05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. 

Page44
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK