Item 1A. Risk Factors.

We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are “forward-looking statements” and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the 

The Procter & Gamble Company  13

time the statements are made, which may become outdated or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations. 

The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes incorporated in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. 

A change in consumer demand for our products and/or lack of market growth could have a significant impact on our business. 

We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by focusing on the most profitable businesses, biggest innovations and most important emerging markets. We also expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate growth in developing regions. If demand for our products and/or market growth rates, in either developed or developing markets, falls substantially below expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these businesses, our volume, and consequently our results, could be negatively impacted. This could occur due to, among other things, unforeseen negative economic or political events, unexpected changes in consumer trends and habits or negative consumer responses to pricing actions.

The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can compete with our local and global competitors in new and existing markets and channels. 

The consumer products industry is highly competitive. Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. This includes, among other things, increasing competition from mid- and lower-tier value products in both developed and developing markets. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms. In addition, the emergence of new sales channels may affect customer and consumer preferences, as well as market dynamics. Failure to 

effectively compete in these new channels could negatively impact results. 

Our ability to meet our growth targets depends on successful product, marketing and operations innovation and our ability to successfully respond to competitive innovation.

Achieving our business results depends, in part, on the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products and improvements to our equipment and manufacturing processes. Successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property protections and to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We must also be able to successfully respond to technological advances made by competitors and intellectual property rights granted to competitors. Failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our results.

Our businesses face cost fluctuations and pressures that could affect our business results. 

Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, labor costs, energy costs, pension and healthcare costs and foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost saving projects and sourcing decisions, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. In addition, our financial projections include cost savings described in our announced productivity plan. Failure to deliver these savings could adversely impact our results.

We face risks that are inherent in global manufacturing that could negatively impact our business results.

We need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements, to achieve our cost targets. While we have business continuity and contingency plans for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, it may be impracticable to have a sufficient alternative source, particularly when the input materials are in limited supply. In addition, our strategy for global growth includes increased presence in emerging markets. Some emerging markets have greater political volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. Any significant disruption of manufacturing, such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business. 

14  The Procter & Gamble Company

We rely on third parties in many aspect our business, which creates additional risk. 

Due to the scale and scope of our business, we must rely on relationships with third parties for certain functions, such as our suppliers, distributors, contractors, joint venture partners or external business partners. While we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance and compliance, thereby potentially increasing our financial, legal, reputational and/or operational risk.

We face risks associated with having significant international operations.

We are a global company, with manufacturing operations in more than 40 countries and a significant portion of our revenue outside the U.S. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to:

•compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws;

•changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws;

•changes in exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings from overseas;

•discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies;

•difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions;

•risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles;

•effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base; and

•imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales outside the U.S. 

We have sizable businesses and maintain local currency cash balances in a number of foreign countries with exchange, import authorization or pricing controls, including, but not limited to, Venezuela, Argentina, China, India and Egypt. Our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. 

Fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also the Results of Operations and Cash Flow, Financial Condition and Liquidity sections of the 

MD&A and Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

We face risks related to changes in the global and political economic environment, including the global capital and credit markets. 

Our business is impacted by global economic conditions, which continue to be volatile. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries and territories around the world. If the global economy experiences significant disruptions, our business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand for our products related to: a slow-down in the general economy; supplier, vendor or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets; and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. 

Our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit markets. Any downgrade of our current credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. 

We could also be negatively impacted by political issues or crises in individual countries or regions, including sovereign risk related to a default by or deterioration in the credit worthiness of local governments. For example, we could be adversely impacted by instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the European Union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the U.S.

Consequently, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographies, as well as any political or economic disruption. These risks could negatively impact our overall liquidity and financing costs, as well as our ability to collect receipts due from governments, including refunds of value added taxes, and/or create significant credit risks relative to our local customers and depository institutions.

If the reputation of the Company or one or more of our brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. 

The Company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships with key stakeholders and other constituencies, such as customers and suppliers. In addition, many of our brands have worldwide recognition. This recognition is the result of the large investments we have made in our products over many years. The quality and safety of our products is critical to our business. Our Company also devotes significant time and resources to programs that are consistent with our corporate values and are designed to protect and preserve our reputation, such as social responsibility and environmental sustainability. If we are unable to effectively 

The Procter & Gamble Company  15

manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy or similar matters, sentiments toward the Company or our products could be negatively impacted; our ability to operate freely could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands and the success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers. Our results could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to a significant product recall, product-related litigation, allegations of product tampering or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products. Widespread use of social media and networking sites by consumers has greatly increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. Negative or inaccurate postings or comments about the Company could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands. In addition, given the association of our individual products with the Company, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of our other products, or the Company as a whole, thereby potentially hurting results.

Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change could impact our business results. 

Our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. We continue to execute a number of significant business and organizational changes, including acquisitions, divestitures and workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes, which may include many staffing adjustments as well as employee departures, to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including retention of particularly key employees, is critical to our business success. We are generally a build-from-within company and our success is dependent on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. This includes developing and retaining organizational capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled or experienced employees may be limited and competition for these resources is intense. 

Our ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities could impact our business results. 

As a company that manages a portfolio of consumer brands, our ongoing business model involves a certain level of acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities. We must be able to successfully manage the impacts of these activities, while at the same time delivering against our business objectives. Specifically, our financial results could be adversely impacted if: 1) changes in the cash flows or other market-based assumptions cause the value of acquired 

assets to fall below book value, 2) we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with divested brands, or 3) we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions and joint ventures, which could also have an impact on goodwill and intangible assets.

Our business is subject to changes in legislation, regulation and enforcement, and our ability to manage and resolve pending legal matters in the U.S. and abroad. 

Changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and increased enforcement actions and penalties may alter the environment in which we do business. The increasingly complex and rapidly changing legal and regulatory environment creates additional challenges for our ethics and compliance programs. Our ability to continue to meet these challenges could have an impact on our legal, reputational and business risk.

 As a U.S.-based multinational company, we are subject to tax regulations in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. For example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the U.S. is not taxed in the U.S., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. If these or other tax regulations should change, our financial results could be impacted. For example, there are increasing calls in the U.S. from members of leadership in both major U.S. political parties for “comprehensive tax reform” which may significantly change the income tax rules that are applicable to U.S. domiciled corporations, such as P&G. It is very difficult to assess whether the overall effect of such potential legislation would be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flows, but such changes could significantly impact our financial results.

Our ability to manage regulatory, environmental, tax (including, but not limited to, any audits or other investigations) and legal matters (including, but not limited to, product liability, patent and other intellectual property matters) and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability may materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, if pending legal matters, including the competition law and antitrust investigations described in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to date, that could materially impact our results of operations and financial position.

A significant change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business. 

We sell most of our products via retail customers, which consist of mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons, distributors, e-commerce and high-frequency stores. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with our retail trade customers. This includes 

16  The Procter & Gamble Company

our ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms and principles. Our business would be negatively impacted if a key customer were to significantly reduce the inventory level of our products or experience a significant business disruption. 

Consolidation among our retail customers could also create significant cost and margin pressure and lead to more complexity across broader geographic boundaries for both us and our key retailers. This would be particularly challenging if major customers are addressing local trade pressures, local law and regulation changes or financial distress. 

A breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business or reputation. 

We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. The various uses of these IT systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: 

•ordering and managing materials from suppliers; 

•converting materials to finished products; 

•shipping products to customers; 

•marketing and selling products to consumers; 

•collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; 

•processing transactions; 

•summarizing and reporting results of operations; 

•hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; 

•complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; 

•providing data security; and 

•handling other processes necessary to manage our business. 

Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our IT systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. The Company has made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, 

employee training and security policies for the Company and its third-party providers. However, because the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. If the IT systems, networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. The costs and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2. Properties.