PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INVESTOR INFORMATION

SCANA’s and SCE&G’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA’s internet website at www.scana.com (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on SCANA’s website is not a part of this report or any other report or document that SCANA or SCE&G files with or furnishes to the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished.

SCANA and SCE&G post information from time to time regarding developments relating to SCE&G’s new nuclear project and other matters of interest to investors on SCANA’s website. On SCANA’s homepage, there is a yellow box containing links to the Nuclear Development and Other Investor Information sections of the website. The Nuclear Development section contains a yellow box with a link to project news and updates. The Other Investor Information section of the website contains a link to recent investor-related information that cannot be found at other areas of the website. Some of the information that will be posted from time to time, including the quarterly reports that SCE&G submits to the SCPSC and the ORS in connection with the new nuclear project, may be deemed to be material information that has not otherwise become public. Investors, media and other interested persons are encouraged to review this information and can sign up, under the Investor Relations Section of the website, for an email alert when there is a new posting in the Nuclear Development and Other Investor Information yellow box. 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees of 5,910 as of February 20, 2017 and 5,829 as of February 19, 2016. SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties, but it holds directly all of the capital stock of its subsidiaries, including the subsidiaries described below.

Regulated Utilities

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 709,000 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 358,000 customers (each as of December 31, 2016). SCE&G’s business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G’s electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 16,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 35 counties in South Carolina and covers approximately 23,000 square miles. More than 3.4 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include chemicals, educational services, paper products, food products, lumber and wood products, health services, textile manufacturing, rubber and miscellaneous plastic products, automotive and tire and fabricated metal products.

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity, pursuant to a FERC-approved tariff, solely to SCE&G under the terms of a unit power sales agreement and related operating agreement. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission allowances.

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 550,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2016). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering approximately 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The predominant industries served by PSNC Energy include educational services, food products, health services, automotive, chemicals, non-woven textiles, electrical generation and construction.

Nonregulated Businesses

SCANA Energy markets natural gas in the southeast and provides energy-related services. A division of SCANA Energy sells natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2016) in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. 

5

SCANA Services, Inc. provides administrative and management services to SCANA's other subsidiaries.

For information with respect to major segments of business, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements. All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ELECTRIC OPERATIONS

Electric Sales

SCE&G’s sales of electricity and margins earned from those sales by customer classification as percentages of electric revenues were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for resale include sales to three municipalities and one electric cooperative. Short-term system sales and margins were not significant for either period presented.

During 2016 SCE&G experienced a net increase of approximately 11,000 electric customers (growth rate of 1.6%), increasing its total number of electric customers to approximately 709,000 at year end.

The following projections assume normal weather where applicable. For the period 2016 to 2017, SCE&G projects a retail kWh sales decrease of approximately 0.1% and customer growth of 1.5%. For the period 2017-2019, SCE&G projects total territorial kWh sales of electricity to increase 0.3% annually, total retail sales to grow 0.3% annually, total electric customer base to increase 1.6% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to increase 1.6% annually. SCE&G’s goal is to maintain a planning reserve margin of between 14% and 20%; however, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall below the reserve margin goal.

Electric Interconnections

SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO’s Williams Station under a unit power sales agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 605 MW.

SCE&G’s transmission system extends over a large part of the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The system interconnects with Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, Duke Energy Progress, LLC, Santee Cooper, Georgia Power Company and the Southeastern Power Administration’s Clarks Hill (Thurmond) Project. SCE&G is a member of VACAR, one of several geographic divisions within the SERC. SERC is one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards approved by FERC. The regional entities and all members of NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America.

6

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply

The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a listing of the Company's generating facilities, see the Electric Properties section within Item 2. Properties. For information on actual and projected sources and percentages of total MWh generation by each category of fuel, see Electric Operations - Environmental within the Overview section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

In 2016, coal was primarily obtained through long-term contracts with suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 1.4 million tons annually. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from 1.0% to 1.6%. These contracts expire at various times through 2018. Spot market purchases may occur when needed or when prices are believed to be favorable. The Company relies on unit trains and, in some cases, trucks and barges for coal deliveries. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that electric operations comply with all applicable regulations relating to the discharge of SO2 and NOX . See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

SCE&G, for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, and WEC are parties to a fuel alliance agreement and contracts for fuel fabrication and related services. Under these contracts, SCE&G supplies enriched products to WEC and WEC supplies nuclear fuel assemblies for Unit 1 and is under contract to supply assemblies for the New Units. WEC will be SCE&G’s exclusive provider of such fuel assemblies on a cost-plus basis. The fuel assemblies to be delivered under the contracts are expected to supply the nuclear fuel requirements of Unit 1 and the New Units through 2033. SCE&G is dependent upon WEC for providing fuel assemblies for the new AP1000 reactors in the New Units in the current and anticipated future absence of other commercially viable sources. 

In addition, SCE&G has contracts covering its nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services and enrichment services. These contracts have varying expiration dates through 2024. SCE&G believes that it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services and that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of its nuclear generating units.

SCE&G stores spent nuclear fuel in its on-site spent-fuel pool, and has constructed a dry cask storage facility to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Unit 1. In addition, Unit 1 has sufficient on-site capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the DOE regarding disposal of spent fuel, see the Environmental section of Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

SCE&G also uses long-term power purchase agreements to ensure that adequate power supply resources are in place to meet load obligations and reserve requirements. As of January 1, 2017, SCE&G had such agreements in place for 325 MW of capacity (expiring at various times through 2020). In addition, SCE&G had the ability to purchase an additional 204 MW of capacity under these agreements.

7

GAS OPERATIONS

Gas Sales-Regulated

Regulated sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the period 2017-2019, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 4.1% annually (excluding transportation and assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 2.5%, commercial of 0.8% and industrial of 10.7%.

For the period 2017-2019, SCE&G projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 2.7% annually (excluding transportation and assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 2.4%, commercial of 0.7% and industrial of 4.3%.

For the period 2017-2019, each of SCANA’s and SCE&G’s total regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase 2.6% annually. During 2016, SCANA recorded a net increase of approximately 26,000 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 2.9%), increasing the number of its regulated gas customers to approximately 907,000. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 10,000 gas customers (growth rate of 2.9%), increasing the number of its total gas customers to approximately 358,000 (as of December 31, 2016).

Demand for gas changes primarily due to weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels.

Gas Cost and Supply

 SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on both a short-term and long-term basis at market based prices. The gas is delivered to South Carolina through firm transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2018), Transco (expiring at various times through 2031) and DCGT (expiring at various times through 2036). The maximum daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts is 212,194 MMBTU from Southern Natural, 104,652 MMBTU from Transco and 461,727 MMBTU from DCGT. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered to SCE&G’s system as capacity is available through interruptible transportation.

The daily volume of gas that SCANA Energy is entitled to transport under its service agreements (expiring at various times through 2023) on a firm basis is 771,627 MMBTU. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered as capacity is available through interruptible transportation.

SCE&G purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $3.46 per MMBTU during 2016 and $3.67 per MMBTU during 2015.

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G has 5,502,600 MMBTU of natural gas storage capacity on the systems of Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 3,806,800 MMBTU of gas were in storage on December 31, 2016. SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG storage facilities, one of which has liquefaction capability. Approximately 1,833,400 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage on December 31, 2016. For a discussion of SCE&G's natural gas storage capacity, see Item 2. Properties.

PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at market based prices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at first of the month index prices plus a reservation charge in certain cases. Transco transports natural gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with varying expiration dates through 2031. On a peak day, PSNC Energy is capable of receiving daily transportation volumes of natural gas under these contracts, utilizing firm contracts of 710,062 MMBTU from Transco.

8

PSNC Energy purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $3.73 per MMBTU during 2016 compared to $4.12 per MMBTU during 2015.

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion Transmission, Inc., Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 13,000,000 MMBTU. Approximately 9,000,000 MMBTU of gas were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2016. PSNC Energy also maintains LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG which provides 1,300,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 1,100,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2016. Approximately 900,000 MMBTU (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at PSNC Energy's LNG storage facility at December 31, 2016. For a discussion of PSNC Energy's LNG storage capacity, see Item 2. Properties. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth.

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated

SCANA Energy markets natural gas and provides energy-related services in the Southeast. In addition, a division of SCANA Energy markets natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2016) in Georgia’s natural gas market. Georgia’s natural gas market includes approximately 1.6 million customers.

Risk Management

For a discussion of risk management policies and procedures, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.

REGULATION

Regulatory jurisdictions to which SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject are described in the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, bankers, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $200 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2018.

SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* SCE&G operates the Saluda hydroelectric project under an annual license while its long-term re-licensing application is being reviewed by FERC.

At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, or may issue a license to another applicant, or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages.

9

RATE MATTERS

For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures

The SCPSC’s fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G’s retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any over-collection or under-collection from the preceding 12-month period. The statutory definition of fuel costs includes certain variable environmental costs, such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions, and the cost of emission allowances used for SO2, NOX, mercury and particulates. In addition, the statutory definition of fuel cost allows electric utilities to recover avoided costs under the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act of 1978, as well as costs incurred as a result of offering DER and net metering programs to its customers. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding concerning its fuel costs at any time. 

Fuel cost recovery procedures related to the Company's natural gas operations along with related rate proceedings by the SCPSC and NCUC are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of any new or pending regulations or standards upon existing operations cannot be predicted. For a discussion of how these regulations and standards may impact SCANA and SCE&G (including capital expenditures necessitated thereby), see the Environmental Matters section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

Insurance coverage for SCE&G's nuclear units is described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

 For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS