ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Pursuant to General Instruction I of Form 10-K, SCE&G is permitted to omit certain information related to itself and its consolidated affiliates called for by Item 7 of Form 10-K, and instead provide a management’s narrative explanation of its consolidated results of operation and other information described therein. Such information is presented hereunder specifically for Consolidated SCE&G, but may be presented alongside information presented for the Company generally. Consolidated SCE&G makes no representation as to information relating solely to SCANA Corporation and its subsidiaries (other than Consolidated SCE&G).

OVERVIEW

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers in the southeast. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides primarily administrative and management services to SCANA and its subsidiaries.

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

23

The following percentages reflect amounts attributable to the Company’s regulated and nonregulated operations and other nonregulated (including the holding company and the services company). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the first quarter of 2015, SCANA closed on the sales of its interstate natural gas pipeline and telecommunications subsidiaries. Gains from these sales are included within Other. See Dispositions in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook

In 2016, companies announced plans to invest over $1.8 billion, with the expectation of creating approximately 7,000 jobs in the Company's South Carolina and North Carolina service territories. At December 31, 2016, South Carolina's unemployment rate was 4.3%, which is approximately 1.2% lower than the prior year. In addition, each of the Company's regulated businesses experienced positive customer growth year over year. 

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company are expected to be additions to rate base at its regulated subsidiaries, consisting primarily of capital expenditures for new generating capacity, environmental facilities and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business and the level of growth of operation and maintenance, interest and other expenses and taxes. 

Electric Operations

SCE&G's electric operations primarily generate electricity and provide for its transmission, distribution and sale to approximately 709,000 customers (as of December 31, 2016) in portions of South Carolina in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

Operating results are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control costs. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electricity prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity compared to other energy sources.

 Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory ROE. SCE&G’s allowed ROE in 2016 was 10.25% for non-BLRA rate base and 10.5% for BLRA-related rate base. For BLRA-related rate base existing prior to 2016, SCE&G's allowed ROE was 11.0%. 

New Nuclear Construction

SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, has contracted with the Consortium for the design and construction of two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear generation units, which SCE&G will jointly own with Santee Cooper. SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%, and SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership from Santee Cooper in increments beginning with the commercial operation date of Unit 2. 

On October 27, 2015, SCE&G, Santee Cooper and the Consortium reached a settlement regarding certain disputes, and the EPC Contract was amended. The October 2015 Amendment became effective on December 31, 2015, and among other things, it resolved by settlement and release substantially all then-outstanding disputes between SCE&G and the Consortium. The October 2015 Amendment also provided SCE&G and Santee Cooper an option, subject to regulatory approvals, to fix the 

24

total amount to be paid to the Consortium for its entire scope of work on the project after June 30, 2015, subject to certain exceptions. In May 2016, SCE&G petitioned the SCPSC for approval of updated construction and capital cost schedules for the New Units developed as a result of the October 2015 Amendment. On November 9, 2016, the SCPSC approved a settlement agreement among SCE&G, ORS and certain other parties concerning this petition. The SCPSC also approved SCE&G’s election of the fixed price option.

The approved construction schedule designates contractual guaranteed substantial completion dates of August 31, 2019 and August 31, 2020 for Units 2 and 3, respectively, although recent communications from WEC indicate substantial completion dates of April 2020 and December 2020 for Units 2 and 3, respectively. These later dates remain within SCPSC-approved 18-month contingency periods provided for under the BLRA, and achievement of such dates would also allow the output of both units to qualify, under current law, for federal production tax credits. However, there is substantial uncertainty as to WEC’s ability to meet these dates given its historical inability to meet forecasted productivity and work force efficiency levels.

The approved capital cost schedule includes incremental capital costs. SCE&G’s total project capital cost is now estimated at approximately $6.8 billion including owner’s costs and transmission, or $7.7 billion with escalation and AFC. In addition, the SCPSC approved revising SCE&G’s allowed ROE for new nuclear construction from 10.5% to 10.25%. This revised ROE will be applied prospectively for the purpose of calculating revised rates sought by SCE&G under the BLRA on and after January 1, 2017. In addition, SCE&G may not file future requests to amend capital cost schedules prior to January 28, 2019, unless its annual revised rate request is denied because SCE&G is out of compliance with its approved capital cost schedule or BLRA construction milestone schedule. In most circumstances, if the projected commercial operation date for Unit 2 is extended, the expiration of the January 28, 2019 moratorium will be extended by an equal amount of time. 

SCE&G and Santee Cooper, the co-owner of the New Units, continue to evaluate various actions which might be taken in the event that Toshiba and WEC are unable or unwilling to complete the project. These include completing the work under any of several arrangements with other contractors or, were it determined to be prudent, halting the project, leaving SCE&G to pursue cost recovery under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA. Any significant delay in the timing of construction or any determination by the SCPSC to disallow the recovery of costs would adversely impact results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

The information summarized above, as well as additional information regarding uncertainties concerning WEC’s ability to continue to fulfill its performance and financial commitments and Toshiba's ability to perform under its payment guaranty with respect to the project and other related matters, is further discussed in Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Environmental

The results of recent elections may affect the pace at which federal environmental laws and regulations are enacted or how stringently their provisions are interpreted in the future. However, public sentiment surrounding air quality and water quality remains strong and is expected to continue unabated. 

Over several years, SCE&G has made significant investments in constructing non-emitting generation (the New Units previously mentioned) and retiring certain coal-fired plants or converting them to burn natural gas. In addition, SCE&G expects to add the renewable energy from six new solar generating facilities at locations throughout its electric service territory over the next few years. The impact of these investments is expected to result in a significant shift toward non-emitting sources of fuel used to generate electricity in the future.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25

In addition, SCE&G and GENCO have made significant investments to install pollution control equipment at their remaining coal-fired plants. These investments, together with investments in non-emitting generation, have reduced their air emissions and are expected to result in additional reductions in the future.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Projected

The status of significant environmental laws and regulations and certain initiatives undertaken to ensure compliance with them are described in Environmental Matters herein and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, uncertainties with respect to the New Units are described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Gas Distribution

The local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy purchase, transport and sell natural gas to approximately 907,000 retail customers (as of December 31, 2016) in portions of South Carolina and North Carolina in areas covering approximately 35,000 square miles. Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control costs. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory ROE for SCE&G of 10.25% and for PSNC Energy of 10.60% through October 31, 2016 and 9.7% thereafter.

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and will impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. 

The production of shale gas in the United States continues to keep prices for this commodity at historic lows, and such prices are expected to continue at generally low levels for several years. The supply of natural gas from the Marcellus shale basin has prompted companies unaffiliated with SCANA to propose a 550-mile pipeline that would bring natural gas from West Virginia to Virginia and North Carolina. This pipeline is expected to be completed in late 2019 and, if successful, it may drive economic development along its path, including areas within PSNC Energy's service territory, and may serve to assist in keeping natural gas competitively priced in the region.

Gas Marketing

SCANA Energy markets natural gas in the southeast and provides energy-related services to customers, including, notably, retail customers in Georgia. Operating results for energy marketing are influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control costs. The price of alternate fuels and customer growth significantly affect demand for natural gas. In addition, the availability of certain pipeline capacity to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the Georgia retail market. SCANA Energy sells natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2016) throughout Georgia. This market is mature, resulting in lower margins and stiff competition. Competitors include affiliates of large energy companies as well as electric membership cooperatives, among others. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share primarily depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors and its ability to provide high levels of customer service. In addition, SCANA Energy's operating results are sensitive to weather. 

26

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings and Dividends

Earnings and dividends were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On February 16, 2017, SCANA declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.6125 per share.

2016 vs 2015

Earnings per share decreased primarily due to the sales of CGT and SCI in 2015, higher operation and maintenance expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes and higher interest expense. These decreases were partially offset by higher electric and gas distribution margins, higher other income net of other expenses and higher energy marketing net income, as further described below.

Consolidated SCE&G's net income increased primarily due to higher electric and gas distribution margins, partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, higher interest cost, and higher income taxes, as further described below.

2015 vs 2014

Earnings per share increased due to the sales of CGT and SCI in 2015, higher electric margins, lower operation and maintenance expenses and lower depreciation expense. These increases were partially offset by lower gas margins, higher property taxes, lower other income, higher interest expense, a higher effective tax rate and dilution from additional shares outstanding, as further described below.

The sales of CGT and SCI were closed in the first quarter of 2015. These subsidiaries operated principally in wholesale markets, whereas the Company's primary focus is the delivery of energy-related products and services to retail markets. Therefore, CGT and SCI were not a part of the Company's core business. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated SCE&G's net income increased primarily due to higher electric and gas distribution margins and lower depreciation expense, partially offset by lower other income, higher operation and maintenance expense, higher property taxes, higher interest cost, and higher income taxes, as further described below.

27

Electric Operations

Electric Operations for the Company and for Consolidated SCE&G is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric Operations operating income (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Electric operations can be significantly impacted by the effects of weather. SCE&G estimates the effects on its electric business of actual temperatures in its service territory as compared to historical averages to develop an estimate of electric margin revenue attributable to the effects of abnormal weather. Results in 2016 reflect warmer than normal weather in the second and third quarters and milder than normal weather in the first and fourth quarters. Results in 2015 reflect colder than normal weather in the first quarter, warmer than normal weather in the second and third quarters and milder than normal weather in the fourth quarter. Results in 2014 reflect colder than normal weather in the first quarter, hotter than normal weather in the second and third quarters and milder than normal weather in the fourth quarter.

2016 vs 2015

•Margin increased due to base rate increases under the BLRA of $60.7 million, the effects of weather of $22.1 million, residential and commercial customer growth of $22.1 million, higher industrial margin of $7.6 million and higher collections under the rate rider for pension costs of $13.5 million. These margin increases were partially offset by lower residential and commercial average use. The higher pension rider collections had no effect on net income as they were fully offset by the recognition, within other operation and maintenance expenses, of higher pension costs. Margin also increased due to downward revenue adjustments in 2015, pursuant to orders from the SCPSC, to apply $14.5 million as an offset to fuel cost recovery upon the adoption of new (lower) electric depreciation rates and by $5.2 million related to DSM Programs. These adjustments had no effect on net income in 2015 as they were fully offset by the recognition of $14.5 million of lower depreciation expense and by the recognition, within other income, of $5.2 million of gains realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate contracts.

•Other operation and maintenance expenses increased due to higher labor costs of $25.4 million, primarily due to increased pension cost associated with the higher pension rider collections and higher incentive compensation costs. Other operation and maintenance expenses also increased due to higher amortization of DSM program costs of $2.0 million.

•Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to net plant additions.

•Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes on net plant additions.

2015 vs 2014

•Margin increased due to downward adjustments of $69.0 million in 2014, compared to downward adjustments of $19.7 million in 2015, pursuant to orders of the SCPSC, related to fuel cost recovery and DSM Programs. These adjustments had no effect on net income as they were fully offset by the recognition, within other income, of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts, lower depreciation expense upon the adoption and implementation of revised depreciation rates as a result of an updated depreciation study and the application, as a reduction to operation and maintenance expenses, of a portion of the storm damage reserve. Margin also increased due to base rate increases under the BLRA of $65.7 million and residential and commercial customer growth of $21.4 million. These increases were partially offset by $25.6 million due to the effects of weather, lower industrial margins of $14.6 million primarily due to variable price contracts, and lower collections under the rate rider for pension costs of $3.0 million. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

28

•Other operation and maintenance expenses increased due to the application of $5.0 million in 2014 of the storm damage reserve to offset downward revenue adjustments related to DSM Programs and the amortization of $3.7 million of DSM Programs cost. These increases were partially offset by lower labor costs of $2.0 million primarily due to lower pension cost recognition as a result of lower rate rider collections.

•Depreciation and amortization decreased by $28.7 million in 2015 due to the implementation of the above mentioned revised depreciation rates, $14.5 million of which was offset by downward revenue adjustments. This decrease in depreciation expense was partially offset by increases associated with net plant additions.

•Other taxes increased due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

Sales volumes (in GWh) related to the electric operations margin above, by class, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs 2015

Retail sales volumes increased primarily due to the effects of weather and customer growth. 

2015 vs 2014

Retail sales volumes decreased primarily due to the effects of weather, partially offset by customer growth. 

Gas Distribution

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G, and for the Company, also includes PSNC Energy. Gas Distribution operating income (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effect of abnormal weather conditions on gas distribution margin is mitigated by the WNA at SCE&G and the CUT at PSNC Energy as further described in Revenue Recognition in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements. The WNA and CUT affect margins but not sales volumes.

2016 vs 2015

•Margin increased $11.5 million at the Company, including $6.0 million at SCE&G, due to residential and commercial customer growth, $5.0 million due to an NCUC-approved rate increase effective November 2016 at PSNC Energy, and $1.1 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in base rates under the RSA effective November 2016 at SCE&G. These increases were partially offset by lower average use of $4.1 million at SCE&G.

•Other operation and maintenance expenses increased due to higher labor costs of $6.7 million at the Company, including $2.1 million at SCE&G, due primarily to higher incentive compensation costs.

•Depreciation and amortization increased at the Company and SCE&G due to net plant additions, partially offset by the implementation of SCPSC-approved revised (lower) depreciation rates at SCE&G of $1.1 million.

•Other taxes increased at the Company and SCE&G due to net plant additions.

29

2015 vs 2014

•Margin increased due to residential and commercial customer growth of $7.8 million at the Company, including $4.3 million at SCE&G, partially offset by a decrease of $3.1 million due to an SCPSC-approved decrease in base rates at SCE&G under the RSA effective November 2014. 

•Other operation and maintenance expenses increased at the Company and SCE&G due to higher labor costs, primarily due to incentive compensation. 

•Depreciation and amortization increased at the Company and SCE&G due to net plant additions.

•Other taxes increased at the Company and SCE&G due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

Sales volumes (in MMBTU) related to gas distribution margin by class, including transportation, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs 2015

Residential and commercial firm sales volumes increased primarily due to customer growth. Commercial and industrial interruptible volumes decreased, and firm volumes increased, due to customers switching from interruptible to firm service at SCE&G. Industrial volumes decreased and transportation volumes increased due to customers switching to transportation only service.

2015 vs 2014

Residential and commercial firm sales volumes decreased due to the effects of weather and lower average use, partially offset by customer growth. Commercial and industrial interruptible volumes decreased due to a shift to transportation service from system supply and the impact of curtailments, partially offset at the Company by lower curtailments at PSNC Energy. Transportation volumes increased due to customers shifting to transportation-only service at SCE&G, and at the Company, included increased sales for natural gas fired electric generation in PSNC Energy's territory. 

Gas Marketing

Gas Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operation, SCANA Energy, which operates in the southeast and includes Georgia’s retail natural gas market. Gas Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs 2015

Operating revenues decreased due to the lower market price of natural gas and lower industrial sales volume. Net income increased primarily due to a weather-related increase in demand. 

2015 vs 2014

Operating revenues decreased due to the lower market price of natural gas, weather-related changes in demand, lower industrial sales volume and lower market prices. Net income decreased primarily due to weather-related changes in demand, partially offset by lower cost of gas and lower costs of transportation to serve customers.

30

Other Operating Expenses

Other operating expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in other operating expenses are largely attributable to the electric operations and gas distribution segments and are addressed in those discussions. Additional information is provided below.

2016 vs 2015

In addition to factors discussed in the electric operations and gas distribution segments, overall increases in other operating expenses were partially offset by the Company's sale of CGT in early 2015, which resulted in decreases in other operation and maintenance expenses of $2.2 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million and other taxes of $0.5 million. 

2015 vs 2014 

In addition to factors discussed in the electric operations and gas distribution segments, the Company's sale of CGT in early 2015 resulted in decreases in other operation and maintenance expenses of $24.2 million, depreciation and amortization of $7.8 million and other taxes of $8 million. 

Net Periodic Benefit Cost

 Other operation and maintenance expense includes net periodic benefit cost, which was recorded on the income statements and balance sheets as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pursuant to regulatory orders, SCE&G recovers current pension expense through a rate rider (for retail electric operations) and through cost of service rates (for gas operations), and amortizes pension costs previously deferred in regulatory assets as further described in Note 2 and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts amortized were $2.0 million for retail electric operations and $1.0 million for gas operations for each period presented.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental non-utility activities of regulated subsidiaries, the activities of certain of the Company's non-regulated subsidiaries, and AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. An equity portion of AFC is included in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC is included in interest charges (credits), both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. Components of other income (expense) and AFC were as follows: 

31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs 2015

Other income at the Company and Consolidated SCE&G decreased by $3.5 million due to lower gains on the sale of land and due to the recognition in 2015 of $5.2 million of gains realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate contracts previously recorded as regulatory liabilities pursuant to SCPSC orders previously discussed. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income (see electric margin discussion). At the Company, other income also decreased by $3.9 million and other expenses decreased by $2.3 million due to the sale of SCI, and other income and other expenses decreased by $10.5 million for billings to DCGT for transition services provided at cost pursuant to the terms of the sale of CGT. Other expenses at the Company and Consolidated SCE&G decreased by $5.2 million due to lower contribution expenses. In 2015, the Company's other income included the gain on the sale of SCI (see Dispositions in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). AFC increased due to construction activity.

2015 vs 2014

Other income decreased at the Company and Consolidated SCE&G due primarily to the recognition of $64.0 million of gains in 2014, compared to $5.2 million in 2015, realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate contracts previously recorded as regulatory liabilities pursuant to the SCPSC orders previously discussed. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income (see electric margin discussion). At the Company, other income also decreased by $18.3 million and other expenses decreased by $10.9 million due to the sale of SCI, and other income and other expenses increased by $12.7 million for billings to DCGT for transition services provided at cost pursuant to the terms of the sale of CGT. In 2015, the Company's other income included the gain on the sale of SCI (see Dispositions in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). AFC decreased due to lower AFC rates.

Interest Expense

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense increased in each year primarily due to increased borrowings.

Income Taxes

At the Company, income tax expense decreased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to lower income before taxes. Income tax expense increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to higher income before taxes. Income before taxes, income taxes and the effective tax rate were all higher in 2015 primarily due to the sales of CGT and SCI. At Consolidated SCE&G, income tax expense increased each year primarily due to increases in income before taxes. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company expects to meet contractual cash obligations in 2017 through internally generated funds and additional short- and long-term borrowings. The Company may also meet such obligations through the sale of equity securities. The Company expects that, barring a future impairment of the capital markets or its access to such markets, it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, including the cash requirements for nuclear construction and refinancing maturing long-term debt. 

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant 

32

investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

Due primarily to the availability of proceeds from the sale of two subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2015, the Company began using open market purchases for its stock plans at the end of January 2015. Prior to the use of open market purchases, SCANA common stock was acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through the original issuance of shares. This provided additional equity of approximately $14 million in 2015.

Rating agencies consider qualitative and quantitative factors when assessing SCANA and its rated operating companies’ credit ratings, including regulatory environment, capital structure and the ability to meet liquidity requirements. Changes in the regulatory environment or deterioration of the Company’s or its rated operating companies' commonly monitored financial credit metrics and adverse developments with respect to nuclear construction could negatively affect the Company’s debt ratings. This could cause the Company to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and could limit the Company's access to capital markets and liquidity.

Cash provided from operating activities in 2015 reflects lower tax payments arising from Congress’ extension of bonus deprecation provisions in 2014. Cash provided from operating activities in 2016 reflects significant tax benefits (reductions in income tax payments) arising from the deduction under Section 174 of the IRC of certain expenditures related to the design and construction of the New Units and the related claim of credits under Section 41 of the IRC. Similar tax benefits are expected to be claimed in the next several years as design and construction continues, and these cash flows are expected to continue to supplant portions of financing which would otherwise be obtained in the capital markets.

Capital Expenditures

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, were $1.6 billion in 2016. Estimates of capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for the next three years, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows:

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Excludes the impact of the updated integrated project schedule which reflects WEC’s revised estimated completion dates of April 2020 and December 2020 for Units 2 and 3, respectively. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

33

Contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2016 are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of the New Units. SCE&G expects to be a joint owner and share operating costs and generation output of the New Units, with SCE&G currently responsible for 55 percent. SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units and has included $850 million for this purpose in other commercial commitments. See also New Nuclear Construction in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Purchase obligations include customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty.

Other commercial commitments includes estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Such forward contracts include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Other commercial commitments also includes a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases.

Unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $219 million have been excluded from the table above due to uncertainty as to the timing of future payments. For additional information, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no significant contributions are anticipated for the foreseeable future. Cash payments under the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plan were $11.1 million in 2016, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase to as much as $15.9 million in the future.

The Company is party to certain NYMEX natural gas futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. The Company, including Consolidated SCE&G, is also party to certain interest rate derivative contracts for which unfavorable market movements above certain thresholds are funded in cash collateral. Certain of these interest rate derivative contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and others are not designated as cash flow hedges but are accounted for pursuant to regulatory orders. See further discussion at Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had posted $29.0 million in cash collateral related to interest rate derivative contracts.

The Company has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Unit 1 and other conditional AROs that are not listed in contractual cash obligations above. See Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Financing Limits and Related Matters

Issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. 

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, banks, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. 

34

GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $200 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2018.

At December 31, 2016 SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy were parties to five-year credit agreements in the amounts of $400 million, $1.2 billion, of which $500 million relates to Fuel Company, and $200 million, respectively, which expire in December 2020. In addition, at December 31, 2016 SCE&G was party to a three-year credit agreement in the amount of $200 million which expires in December 2018. These credit agreements are used for general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for each company's commercial paper program and working capital needs and, in the case of Fuel Company, to finance or refinance the purchase of nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels, and emission and other environmental allowances. For a list of banks providing credit support and other information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

As of December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its credit facilities, had approximately $941 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding, was obligated under $3.3 million in LOC-supported letters of credit, and held approximately $208 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. The Company's average short-term borrowings outstanding during 2016 were approximately $857 million. Short-term cash needs were met primarily through the issuance of commercial paper.

At December 31, 2016, the Company’s long-term debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of approximately 20 years and bears an average cost of 5.8%. Substantially all long-term debt bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. 

The Company’s articles of incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) and PSNC Energy’s note purchase and debenture purchase agreements each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock.

The Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings from hydroelectric projects. At December 31, 2016, approximately $79.0 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock.

SCANA Corporation

SCANA has an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term notes. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its first mortgage bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Bond Ratio was 5.12.

Financing Activities

During 2016, net cash inflows related to financing activities totaled approximately $560 million, primarily associated with the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and short-term borrowings, partially offset by the payment of dividends. 

On November 1, 2016, Consolidated SCE&G paid at maturity $100 million related to a nuclear fuel financing which had an imputed interest rate of 0.78%.

In June 2016, SCE&G issued $425 million of 4.1% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2046. In addition, SCE&G issued $75 million of 4.5% first mortgage bonds due June 1, 2064, which constituted a reopening of the $300 million of 4.5% first mortgage bonds issued in May 2014. Proceeds from these sales were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

35

In June 2016, PSNC Energy issued $100 million of 4.13% senior notes due June 22, 2046. Proceeds from this sale were used to repay short-term debt, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

In May 2015, SCE&G issued $500 million of 5.1% first mortgage bonds due June 1, 2065. Proceeds from this sale were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

On February 2, 2015, SCANA redeemed prior to maturity $150 million of its 7.70% junior subordinated notes at their face value. 

Investing Activities

To settle interest rate derivative contracts, the Company paid approximately $113 million in 2016, $253 million, net, in 2015 and approximately $95 million in 2014. 

For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five years ended December 31, 2016, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company's ratio for 2015 reflects the impact of gains recorded upon the sale of certain subsidiaries. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

NEW NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION MATTERS

For a discussion of developments related to new nuclear construction, see Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The operations of the Company are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the CAA, CWA, Nuclear Waste Act and CERCLA, among others. In many cases, regulations proposed by such authorities could have a significant impact on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the conditions or requirements that will be imposed by regulatory or legislative proposals often cannot be predicted. To the extent that compliance with environmental regulations or legislation results in capital expenditures or operating costs, recovery of such expenditures and costs are expected through existing ratemaking provisions.

For the three years ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at fossil fuel generating stations totaled $39.5 million. During this same period, expenditures were made for the construction and retirement of landfills and ash ponds, net of disposal proceeds, of approximately $32.8 million. In addition, expenditures were made to operate and maintain environmental control equipment at fossil plants of $9.5 million in 2016, $8.7 million in 2015 and $9.1 million in 2014, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense, and expenditures were made to handle waste ash, net of disposal proceeds, of $2.4 million in 2016, $1.3 million in 2015 and $1.6 million in 2014, which are included in fuel used in electric generation. In addition, included within other operation and maintenance expense is an annual amortization of $1.4 million in each of 2016, 2015 and 2014 related to SCE&G's recovery of MGP remediation costs as approved by the SCPSC. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $38.3 million for 2017 and $120 million for the four-year period 2018-2021. These expenditures are included in the Estimated Capital Expenditures table, discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below.

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the NSR provisions and the NSPS of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the DOJ, on behalf of the EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis 

36

for these actions is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. Though the Company cannot predict what action, if any, the EPA will initiate against it, any costs incurred are expected to be recoverable through rates.

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving other potential physical impacts. Other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also materialize. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive.

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and any resultant damage to the Company's electric and gas systems, as well as impacts on employees and customers, the supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties. As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams who receive ongoing training and related simulations, all in order to allow for the protection of assets and the return of systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event.

Environmental commitments and contingencies are further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

REGULATORY MATTERS

SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the following entities for the matters noted.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37

SCE&G and PSNC EnergyThe PHMSA and the DOT as to federal pipeline safety requirements for gas distribution pipeline systems and natural gas transmission systems, respectively. The ORS and the NCUC are responsible for enforcement of federal and state pipeline safety requirements in South Carolina (SCE&G) and North Carolina (PSNC Energy), respectively.

SCANA EnergyThe GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically as to retail prices for customers served under its regulated provider contract.

Material retail rate proceedings are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the RSA allows natural gas distribution companies in South Carolina to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC.

SCE&G’s electric transmission system and certain facilities related to generation and distribution are subject to NERC, which develops and enforces reliability standards for the bulk power systems throughout North America. NERC is subject to oversight by FERC.

Dodd-Frank provides for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and requires numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement. The Company has determined that it meets the end-user exception in Dodd-Frank, with the lowest level of required regulatory reporting burden imposed by this law. The Company is currently complying with these enacted regulations and intends to comply with regulations enacted in the future, but cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Following are descriptions of the accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations.

Accounting for Rate Regulated Operations

Regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, in the event of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities may no longer be met, and the write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could be required. Such an event could have a material effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Electric Operations and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the regulatory assets and liabilities.

Generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write down in those assets could be required. It is not possible to predict whether any write-downs would be necessary and, if they were, the extent to which they would affect results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2016, net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.2 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, estimates are recorded for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers for which they have not yet been billed. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. The Company's accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $178.9 million at December 31, 2016 and $129.1 million at December 31, 2015, compared to total revenues of $4.2 billion in 2016 and $4.4 billion in 2015. 

38

Nuclear Decommissioning

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years into the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and the estimated timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers).

Based on a decommissioning cost study, SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Unit 1, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $786.4 million, stated in 2016 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Unit 1. The cost estimate assumes that upon closure the site would be maintained for 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use.

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through rates, less expenses. The trust invests the amounts transferred into insurance policies on the lives of certain company personnel. Insurance proceeds are reinvested in insurance policies. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures for Unit 1 on an after-tax basis.

Asset Retirement Obligations

AROs are accrued for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. These obligations are recognized at present value in the period in which they are incurred, and associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to regulated utility operations, their recognition has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2016, the Company has recorded AROs of $199 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and AROs of $359 million for other conditional obligations primarily related to other generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of precision, particularly since payments in settlement of such obligations may be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the utilities remains in place.

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability and changes in funded status as a component of net periodic benefit cost or other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions that impact pension cost, of which the discount rate and the expected return on assets are the most sensitive. Net pension cost of $22.9 million recorded in 2016 reflects the use of a 4.68% discount rate derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 7.50% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions and the resulting pension cost amount were reasonable. For purposes of comparison, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate in 2016 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.6 million and increased the pension obligation by $23.2 million. Further, had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 7.25%, the Company’s pension cost for 2016 would have increased by $1.9 million.

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted.

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2016, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 5.3%, 4.6%, 7.2% and 8.7%, respectively. The 2016 expected long-term rate of return of 7.50% was based on a target asset allocation of 58% with equity managers, 33% with fixed income managers and 9% with hedge fund managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. As of the beginning of 2017, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 5.1%, 5.4%, 6.9% and 8.2%, respectively. For 2017, it is anticipated that the long-term expected rate of return will be 7.25%.

39

Pursuant to regulatory orders, certain previously deferred pension costs are being amortized as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Current pension expense for electric operations is being recovered through a pension cost rider, and current pension expense related to SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's gas operations is being recovered through cost of service rates.

Pension benefits are not offered to employees hired or rehired after 2013, and pension benefits for existing participants will no longer accrue for services performed or compensation earned after 2023. As a result, the significance of pension costs and the criticality of the related estimates will continue to diminish. Further, the pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and management does not anticipate the need to make significant pension contributions for the foreseeable future based on current market conditions and assumptions.

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plan in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 4.78%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost for 2016 of $17.3 million. Had the selected discount rate been 4.53% (25 basis points lower than the discount rate referenced above), the expense for 2016 would have been $0.7 million higher and increased the obligation by $8.3 million. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, and because employees hired after 2010 are responsible for the full cost of retiree medical benefits elected by them, health care cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

Uncertain Income Tax Positions

During 2013 and 2014, SCANA amended certain of its income tax returns to claim additional tax-defined research and experimentation deductions (under IRC Section 174) and credits (under IRC Section 41) and to reflect related impacts on other items such as domestic production activities deductions (under IRC Section 199). SCANA also made similar claims in filing its original 2013 and 2014 returns in 2014 and 2015, respectively. In September 2016, SCANA claimed significant research and experimentation deductions and credits (offset by reductions in its domestic production activities deductions), related to the ongoing design and construction activities of the New Units, in its 2015 income tax returns. These claims followed the issuance of final IRS regulations in 2014 regarding such treatment with respect to expenditures related to the design and construction of pilot models. See also Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

These income tax deductions and credits are considered to be uncertain tax positions, and under relevant accounting guidance, estimates of the amounts of related tax benefits which may not be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities are required to be recorded as unrecognized tax benefits in the financial statements. As of December 31, 2016, such estimated unrecognized tax benefits totaled $350 million ($219 million net of the impact of state deductions on federal returns, and net of certain operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and receivables related to the uncertain tax positions). The estimates of unrecognized tax benefits were computed with consideration as to whether the claims are (or are not) more likely than not to be sustained and with consideration of analyses of cumulative probabilities regarding potential outcomes. Such estimates involve significant management judgment and varying levels of precision. Changes in such estimates are required to be recorded as circumstances change and additional information regarding the claims and potential outcomes becomes available, and these changes could be significant.

However, as these uncertain tax positions primarily involve the timing of recognition of tax deductions rather than permanent tax attributes, the estimates regarding their recognition do not significantly impact the Company's effective tax rate. Further, the permanent attributes (net), as well as most of the interest accruals required to be recorded with respect to the unrecognized tax benefits, have been deferred within regulatory assets. As such, the impacts of these significant accounting estimates, and changes therein, are primarily reflected on the balance sheet rather than in results of operations.

Upon resolution of the uncertainties, the Company will be required to re-pay any tax benefits claimed which are ultimately disallowed, along with interest on those amounts. In certain circumstances, which the Company considers to be remote, penalties for underpayment of income taxes could also be assessed. Such amounts could be significant and adversely affect cash flow and financial condition.

40

OTHER MATTERS

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

SCANA holds insignificant investments in securities and business ventures. The Company does not engage in significant off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to various operating leases in the normal course of business for land, office space, furniture, vehicles, equipment, rail cars, a purchase power agreement, and airplanes.

Claims and Litigation

For a description of claims and litigation, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Other

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service to customers considered to be low-income or that are otherwise unable to obtain natural gas service from other marketers. SCANA Energy provides this service at rates approved by the GPSC and receives funding from Georgia's Universal Service Fund to offset some of the resulting bad debt. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC).

SCANA’s natural gas distribution and gas marketing segments maintain gas inventory and utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or placed under contract. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK