ITEM 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” below and in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

 Introduction  

 We are a leading national provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions to the electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications industries. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems and telecommunications networks used for video, data and voice transmission. We also design, procure, construct and maintain fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.  

 We report our results under four reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services, (3) Telecommunications Infrastructure Services and (4) Fiber Optic Licensing. These reportable segments are based on the types of services we provide. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were approximately $3.9 billion, of which 52% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 36% to the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, 9% to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment and 3% to the Fiber Optic Licensing segment.  

 Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. We enter into various types of contracts, including competitive unit price, hourly rate, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price (or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a substantial majority of our fixed price projects within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open-ended unit price or cost-plus master service agreements that are renewable periodically.  

 We recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus contracts as units are completed or services are performed. For our fixed price contracts, we record revenues as work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project is complete and has been accepted by our customer.  

 For internal management purposes, we are organized into three internal divisions, namely, the electric power division, the natural gas and pipeline division and the telecommunications division. These internal divisions are closely aligned with the reportable segments described above based on the predominant type of work provided by the operating units within a division. The operating units providing predominantly telecommunications and fiber optic licensing services are managed within the same internal division.  

 Reportable segment information, including revenues and operating income by type of work, is gathered from each operating unit for the purpose of evaluating segment performance in support of our market strategies. These classifications of our operating unit revenues by type of work for segment reporting purposes can at times require judgment on the part of management. Our operating units may perform joint infrastructure service projects for customers in multiple industries, deliver multiple types of network services under a single customer contract or    

 33   

 provide service across industries, for example, joint trenching projects to install distribution lines for electric power, natural gas and telecommunication customers. Our integrated operations and common administrative support at each of our operating units requires that certain allocations, including allocations of shared and indirect costs, such as facility costs, indirect operating expenses including depreciation and general and administrative costs, are made to determine operating segment profitability. Corporate costs, such as payroll and benefits, employee travel expenses, facility costs, professional fees, acquisition costs and amortization related to certain intangible costs are not allocated.  

 The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including repairing infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, in particular solar and wind, and related switchyards and transmission networks. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.  

 The Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems, compressor and pump stations and gas gathering systems, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, pipeline integrity and rehabilitation and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.  

 The Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the telecommunications and cable television industries. Services performed by the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice transmission, as well as the design, installation and upgrade of wireless communications networks, including towers, switching systems and “backhaul” links from wireless systems to voice, data and video networks. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including repairing telecommunications infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent, services provided under this segment include cable locating, splicing and testing of fiber optic networks and residential installation of fiber optic cabling.  

 The Fiber Optic Licensing segment designs, procures, constructs and maintains fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to our customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with licensing terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. The Fiber Optic Licensing segment provides services to enterprise, education, carrier, financial services and healthcare customers, as well as other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.  

 Recent Acquisitions  

 On October 25, 2010, we acquired Valard Construction LP and certain of its affiliated entities (Valard), an electric power infrastructure services company based in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition allows us to further expand our electric power infrastructure capabilities and scope of services in Canada. Because of the type of work performed by Valard, its financial results will generally be included in the Electric Power Infrastructure Services    

 34   

 segment. The results of Valard have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on October 25, 2010.  

 Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results; Economic Conditions  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules as well as holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays on projects. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations quarter-to-quarter and their effect on particular projects.  

 Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States and Canada. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 We and our customers continue to operate in a challenging business environment, with increasing regulatory requirements and only gradual recovery in the economy and capital markets from recessionary levels. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions have had or may have on them. Certain of our customers have reduced spending in the past two years, which we attribute to the negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these negative conditions may continue to affect demand for some of our services in the near-term. However, we believe that most of our customers, many of whom are regulated utilities, remain financially stable in general and will be able to continue with their business plans in the long-term. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Understanding Margins  

 Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues, and our operating margin is operating income expressed as a percentage of revenues. Cost of services, which is subtracted from revenues to obtain gross profit, consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are then subtracted from gross profit to obtain operating income. Various factors — some controllable, some not — impact our margins on a quarterly or annual basis.  

 Seasonal and Geographical. As discussed above, seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months versus the warmer months of the year. This can be offset somewhat by increased demand for electrical service and repair work resulting from severe weather. Additionally, project schedules, including when projects begin and when they are completed, may impact margins. The mix of business conducted in different parts of the country will also affect margins, as some parts of the country offer the    

 35   

 opportunity for higher gross margins than others due to the geographic characteristics associated with the physical location where the work is being performed. Such characteristics include whether the project is performed in an urban versus a rural setting or in a mountainous area or in open terrain. Site conditions, including unforeseen underground conditions, can also impact margins.  

 Weather. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can impact gross margins in a given period. For example, it is typical that parts of the country may experience snow or rainfall that may negatively impact our revenues and margins due to reduced productivity. In many cases, projects may be delayed or temporarily placed on hold. Conversely, in periods when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable impact on margins. In some cases, severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, can provide us with higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on margins.  

 Revenue Mix. The mix of revenues derived from the industries we serve will impact margins, as certain industries provide higher margin opportunities. Additionally, changes in our customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand and, therefore, affect margins and mix of revenues by industry served.  

 Service and Maintenance versus Installation. Installation work is often obtained on a fixed price basis, while maintenance work is often performed under pre-established or negotiated prices or cost-plus pricing arrangements. Margins for installation work may vary from project to project, and may be higher than maintenance work, as work obtained on a fixed price basis has higher risk than other types of pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 30% of our annual revenues from maintenance work, but a higher portion of installation work in any given period may affect our gross margins for that period.  

 Subcontract Work. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower margins. An increase in subcontract work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in margins. We typically subcontract approximately 15% to 20% of our work to other service providers.  

 Materials versus Labor. Typically, our customers are responsible for supplying their own materials on projects; however, for some of our contracts, we may agree to procure all or part of the required materials. Margins may be lower on projects where we furnish a significant amount of materials, as our mark-up on materials is generally lower than on our labor costs. In a given period, an increase in the percentage of work with higher materials procurement requirements may decrease our overall margins.  

 Depreciation. We include depreciation in cost of services. This is common practice in our industry, but it can make comparability to other companies difficult. This must be taken into consideration when comparing us to other companies.  

 Insurance. Margins could be impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals as additional claims arise and as circumstances and conditions of existing claims change. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

 Performance Risk. Margins may fluctuate because of the volume of work and the impacts of pricing and job productivity, which can be impacted both favorably and negatively by weather, geography, customer decisions and crew productivity. For example, when comparing a service contract between a current quarter and the comparable prior year’s quarter, factors affecting the gross margins associated with the revenues generated by the contract may include pricing under the contract, the volume of work performed under the contract, the mix of the type of work    

 36   

 specifically being performed and the productivity of the crews performing the work. Productivity of a crew can be influenced by many factors, including where the work is performed (e.g., rural versus urban area or mountainous or rocky area versus open terrain), whether the work is on an open or encumbered right of way or the impacts of inclement weather. These types of factors are not practicable to quantify through accounting data, but each may have a direct impact on the gross margin of a specific project.  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, acquisition costs, gains and losses on the sale of property and equipment, letter of credit fees and maintenance, training and conversion costs related to the implementation of information technology systems.  

 Results of Operations  

 The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):  

 Consolidated Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2010 compared to 2009  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $613.1 million, or 18.5%, to $3.93 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services increased $618.6 million, or 78.8%, to $1.40 billion and fiber optic licensing revenues increased $19.5 million, or 22.4%, to $106.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services increased primarily as a result of revenue contributions from Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009. Revenues from fiber optic licensing increased primarily as a result of continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point to point fiber optic telecommunications facilities. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues from electric power infrastructure services, which decreased $19.6 million, or 0.9%, to    

 37   

 $2.05 billion, primarily due to the timing of major transmission projects and decreases in spending by our customers.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $40.9 million, or 6.9%, to $634.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in gross profit was predominantly due to the contribution of gas transmission service revenues during 2010, primarily as the result of the acquisition of Price Gregory. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin decreased to 16.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 17.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as a result of decreases in gross margins in electric power, natural gas and pipeline and telecommunications infrastructure services. The decrease in electric power margins is primarily the result of lower overall levels of profit being contributed from higher margin electric transmission services as a result of the timing of major projects discussed above. Although overall levels of gas transmission service revenues and gross profit increased in 2010 as compared to 2009, gross margins earned for 2010 were negatively impacted by unanticipated delays and difficult weather conditions, which led to higher costs on certain large gas transmission jobs. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in gross margin in fiber optic licensing services.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $27.3 million, or 8.7%, to $339.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased approximately $20.3 million as a result of the addition of administrative expenses associated with the Price Gregory acquisition and, to a lesser extent, the Valard acquisition. In addition, acquisition and integration costs of $10.6 million were incurred in 2010 compared to $2.8 million in 2009. The costs for the ongoing implementation of technology solutions also increased $1.5 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in net losses on sales of equipment, which were $4.7 million during 2010, as compared to $8.0 million in 2009. Included in the $8.0 million in net losses in 2009 was an impairment charge of $4.5 million for assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 related to natural gas segment equipment that was deemed to be duplicative as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 8.6% from 9.4% primarily due to a better ability to cover fixed costs as a result of higher revenues earned in 2010.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $0.4 million to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease is primarily due to reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized, offset by increased amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisitions of Valard on October 25, 2010 and Price Gregory on October 1, 2009.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $6.4 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the redemption of all of our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) on May 14, 2010.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease results primarily from substantially lower interest rates earned for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 Loss on early extinguishment of debt. Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss on early extinguishment of debt is a result of the redemption of all of the outstanding 3.75% Notes on May 14, 2010. This loss includes a non-cash loss of $3.5 million related to the difference between the net carrying value and the estimated fair value on the 3.75% Notes calculated as of the date of redemption, the payment of $2.3 million representing the 1.607% redemption premium above par value and a non-cash loss of $1.3 million from the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred financing costs related to the 3.75% Notes.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $90.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, with an effective tax rate of 36.8%. The provision for income taxes was $70.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, with an effective tax rate of 30.0%. The effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009 were impacted by the recording of tax benefits in the amount of $10.5 million in 2010 and $23.7 million in 2009 associated with decreases in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state statutes of limitations.   

 38   

 2009 compared to 2008  

 Revenues. Revenues decreased $462.1 million, or 12.2%, to $3.32 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Electric power infrastructure services revenues decreased $233.7 million, or 10.2%, to $2.07 billion, telecommunications infrastructure services revenues decreased $158.4 million, or 29.5%, to $378.4 million and natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services revenues decreased $94.9 million, or 10.8%, to $784.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Overall, revenues were negatively impacted by decreases in the number and size of projects as a result of reduced capital spending by our customers. Additionally, revenues from electric power infrastructure services were also impacted by a decrease of approximately $126.5 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, from approximately $206.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to approximately $79.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to work performed following hurricanes Fay, Gustav and Ike during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. These decreases were partially offset by approximately $245.1 million in natural gas and pipeline services revenues contributed by Price Gregory for the period from October 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009. Additionally, revenues from fiber optic licensing increased $24.9 million, or 40.0%, to $87.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit decreased $41.4 million, or 6.5%, to $593.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in gross profit resulted primarily from the effect of the decreased revenues discussed above. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin increased to 17.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 16.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily as a result of increased revenues from our higher margin electric transmission services combined with improved margins in telecommunications infrastructure services. Gross margins in 2009 were favorably impacted by increased fiber optic licensing revenues, which typically generate higher gross margins than our other services. In addition, gross margins for our telecommunications infrastructure services were negatively affected in 2008 by losses on a project ongoing during the year, which resulted from substantial delays and productivity issues on the project.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.0 million, or 1.0%, to $312.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $7.5 million for the period October 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. In addition, acquisition and ongoing integration costs of $2.8 million were incurred in 2009, primarily in connection with the Price Gregory acquisition. Also contributing to the increase were $8.0 million in net losses on sales of equipment during 2009, as compared to losses of $2.5 million in 2008. Included in the $8.0 million in net losses in 2009 was an impairment charge of $4.5 million for assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 related to natural gas segment equipment that was deemed to be duplicative as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in performance bonuses of approximately $11.8 million. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 9.4% from 8.2% primarily due to less ability to cover fixed costs as a result of lower revenues earned in 2009 than in 2008.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased $2.7 million to $39.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase is primarily due to increased amortization of backlog related to the acquisition of Price Gregory on October 1, 2009, partially offset by reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $20.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to the conversion, redemption and repurchase of all outstanding 4.5% convertible subordinated notes that occurred in September and early October of 2008.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease results primarily from substantially lower interest rates partially offset by a higher average cash balance for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.   

 39   

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $70.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, with an effective tax rate of 30.0%. The provision for income taxes was $109.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, with an effective tax rate of 41.0%. The lower effective tax rate for 2009 results primarily from $23.7 million of tax benefits recorded in 2009 associated with decreases in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state statutes of limitations.  

 Segment Results  

 The following table sets forth revenues and operating income (loss) by segment for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2010 compared to 2009  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $19.6 million, or 0.9%, to $2.05 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues were negatively impacted primarily by a reduction in electric power transmission services related to the timing of major transmission projects. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in revenues from other electric power infrastructure services, as well as approximately $25.7 million in revenues contributed from Valard, which was acquired on October 25, 2010. Additionally, revenues were positively impacted by an increase of approximately $16.7 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, to approximately $96.5 million in 2010 from approximately $79.8 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to the increased work associated with ice storms in the United States during the first quarter of 2010.  

 Operating income decreased $16.2 million, or 7.2%, to $209.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $226.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, while operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009. These decreases are primarily the result of lower levels of profit being contributed from higher margin electric transmission services due to the timing of major transmission projects discussed above, coupled with a more competitive pricing environment for smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. In addition, margins were lower on emergency restoration services performed in 2010 as compared to 2009.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased $618.6 million, or 78.8%, to $1.40 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase is due to the incremental contribution of natural gas transmission service revenues    

 40   

 primarily from the operations of Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009.  

 Operating income increased $56.5 million, or 90.2%, to $119.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increases in operating income and operating margin are primarily due to the increased revenue contributions resulting from the acquisition of Price Gregory, which led to a change in the mix of services to a greater volume of higher margin gas transmission services in 2010 as compared to 2009, as well as the impact of higher overall revenues on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $5.4 million, or 1.4%, to $372.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to lower revenues from fiber build-out initiatives as a result of continued reduced capital spending by our customers during 2010 as compared to 2009. This decrease in revenues was partially offset by an increase in the volume of work associated with long-haul fiber installation during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the 2009 period.  

 Operating income decreased $10.5 million, or 41.4%, to $14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to operating income of $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 4.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010. These decreases are primarily due to the impact of losses incurred during the first quarter of 2010 as a result of weather related slowdowns impacting this segment’s productivity, coupled with lower overall margins on work performed in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to a change in the mix of the types of services performed during 2010 as a result of continued reduced capital spending by our customers.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased $19.5 million, or 22.4%, to $106.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Operating income increased $8.6 million, or 19.4%, to $52.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 remained relatively constant.  

 Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

 Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $24.3 million to $140.5 million. The increase is primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits costs of approximately $11.1 million from increased non-cash stock compensation as well as higher personnel and incentive compensation expenses associated with current levels of operating activity. In addition, acquisition and ongoing integration costs of $10.6 million were incurred in 2010 compared to $2.8 million in 2009. Also, the costs for the ongoing implementation of technology solutions increased $1.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 2009 compared to 2008  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $233.7 million, or 10.2%, to $2.07 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Revenues were negatively impacted by a decrease of approximately $126.5 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, to approximately $79.8 million for 2009 from approximately $206.3 million in 2008. This decrease resulted from work following hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States during 2008 which was only partially offset by emergency restoration services related to ice storms in the first quarter of 2009. Emergency restoration services associated with these hurricanes continued into the first    

 41   

 quarter of 2009; however, no major hurricanes impacted the United States during 2009. Revenues were also negatively impacted by a decrease in electric power distribution services and other electric power infrastructure services primarily from reduced service work and capital spending by our customers, which was partially offset by increased revenues from electric transmission services related to an increased number of larger projects being performed in 2009.  

 Operating income decreased $21.6 million, or 8.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the reduced revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased slightly to 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although there was a substantial decrease in emergency restoration services in 2009, which typically generate higher margins, the increased contribution in 2009 from higher margin electric transmission services as well as generally higher margins for other services in this segment offset this decrease. In addition, general and administrative expenses decreased approximately $6.2 million primarily due to decreased salaries and benefits expense associated with lower performance bonuses.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $94.9 million, or 10.8%, to $784.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gas distribution services of $73.4 million due to reduced capital spending by our customers resulting in reductions in the number and size of projects during the period. Additionally, natural gas transmission revenues contributed by Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009, were approximately $245.1 million, which offset year over year decreases in other natural gas transmission revenues of $246.7 million resulting from larger projects during 2008 that were not replaced in 2009.  

 Operating income decreased $13.5 million, or 17.7%, to $62.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the decreased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 8.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in operating margins is primarily due to the lower overall revenues and the related impact on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs, coupled with losses of $4.5 million on natural gas segment assets held for sale that were deemed to be duplicative assets as a result of the acquisition and integration of Price Gregory. These decreases were partially offset by the contribution of Price Gregory’s higher margin transmission pipeline work.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $158.4 million, or 29.5%, to $378.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to reduced capital spending for fiber build-out initiatives during 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from fiber build-out initiatives decreased approximately $114.5 million to approximately $147.8 million as compared to approximately $262.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenues were also negatively impacted by a decrease in the number and size of other telecommunications projects as a result of overall reduced capital spending by our customers in 2009 as compared to 2008.  

 Operating income decreased $16.6 million, or 39.5%, to $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the decreased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease is a result of the lower overall revenues and the related impact on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs during 2009.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased from $62.3 million, or 40.0%, to $87.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Operating income increased $11.4 million, or 34.7%, to $44.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 50.6% from 52.6% primarily as a result of the timing of various system maintenance costs.   

 42   

 Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

 Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $6.8 million to $116.1 million primarily due to a $2.9 million increase in non-capitalized costs associated with an ongoing implementation of information technology solutions, coupled with acquisition and integration costs of approximately $2.8 million incurred in 2009, principally related to the Price Gregory acquisition, and an increase in amortization of intangible assets of $2.7 million. This increase in amortization of intangible assets is primarily due to increased amortization of backlog related to the acquisition of Price Gregory on October 1, 2009, partially offset by reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized. These increases were partially offset by decreases due to lower salaries and benefits expense in 2009 associated with lower performance bonuses.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash Requirements  

 We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, which totaled $539.2 million as of December 31, 2010, existing borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our future cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our future operating needs, debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures, as well as facilitate our ability to grow in the foreseeable future. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time that may require cash. In addition, we evaluate opportunities to make investments in customer-sponsored projects where we anticipate performing services such as project management, engineering, procurement or construction services, and we believe such investments enhance our ability to secure such services. These investment opportunities exist in the markets and industries we serve and may take the form of debt or equity investments, which may require cash.  

 Management continues to monitor the financial markets and general national and global economic conditions. We consider our cash investment policies to be conservative in that we maintain a diverse portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality cash investments with short-term maturities. We were in compliance with our covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2010. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that any weakness in the capital markets will have a material impact on the principal amounts of our cash investments or our ability to rely upon our existing credit facility for funds. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents or funds under our credit facility; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted in the future by adverse conditions in the financial markets.  

 Capital expenditures are expected to be between $180 million to $210 million for 2011. Approximately $30 million to $35 million of the expected 2011 capital expenditures are targeted for the expansion of our fiber optic networks.  

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $539.2 million, working capital of $1.10 billion and a nominal amount of long-term obligations. We also had $177.0 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving $298.0 million available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit.  

 Operating Activities  

 Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide, but can also be influenced by working capital needs, in particular on larger projects, due to the timing of collection of receivables and the settlement of payables and other obligations. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in certain regions of the country. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months.  

 Operating activities provided net cash to us of $240.3 million during 2010 as compared to $376.9 million during 2009 and $242.5 million during 2008. The operating cash flows in 2009 were higher than in 2010 and 2008    

 43   

 primarily due to the collection of large accounts receivable and retainage balances in 2009 that were outstanding at the end of 2008. Additionally, operating cash flows in 2010 were negatively impacted as a result of an increase in working capital levels at December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to the timing of production and billing milestones on certain large gas transmission projects.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2010, we used net cash in investing activities of $254.3 million as compared to $119.7 million and $219.3 million used in investing activities in 2009 and 2008. Investing activities in 2010 included $130.3 million of net cash used in connection with our acquisition of Valard and $149.7 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $25.7 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Investing activities in 2009 included $36.2 million of net cash acquired primarily as a result of our acquisition of Price Gregory. During 2009 and 2008, we used $165.0 million and $185.6 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $9.1 million and $15.4 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Investing activities during 2008 also include $34.5 million in net cash outlays for three acquisitions and $14.6 million paid to secure patents and developed technology.  

 Financing Activities  

 In 2010, we used net cash in financing activities of $145.7 million as compared to $1.5 million provided by financing activities in 2009 and $8.2 million provided by financing activities in 2008. Financing activities in 2010 included $143.8 million in payments for the redemption of the aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% Notes, described in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, as well as $2.3 million in net repayments of other borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, we made a $2.4 million cash payment to a noncontrolling interest as a distribution of profits. These outflows were partially offset by $2.2 million in tax impacts from stock-based equity awards and $0.5 million received from the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2009 resulted primarily from $2.0 million in net proceeds from borrowings, coupled with cash inflows of $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options. These inflows were partially offset by a $1.5 million tax impact from the vesting of stock-based equity awards. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 resulted primarily from $6.0 million received from the exercise of stock options.  

 Debt Instruments  

 Credit Facility  

 We have an agreement with various lenders that provides for a $475.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing on September 19, 2012. Subject to the conditions specified in the credit facility, borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The entire unused portion of the credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit.  

 As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $177.0 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and no outstanding revolving loans. The remaining $298.0 million was available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 0.875% to 1.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility), or (b) the base rate (as described below) plus 0.00% to 0.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.875% to 1.75%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. We are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, on any unused availability under the credit facility. The base rate equals the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 1/2 of 1% or (ii) the bank’s prime rate.  

 The credit facility contains certain covenants, including covenants with respect to maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA and minimum interest coverage, in each case as specified in the credit facility. For purposes of calculating the maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio and the maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, our maximum funded debt and maximum senior debt are reduced by all cash and cash equivalents (as defined in the credit facility) held by us in excess of $25.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of its covenants. The credit    

 44   

 facility limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, capital expenditures, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on material assets. The credit facility also limits the payment of dividends and stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year except those payments or other distributions payable solely in capital stock. The credit facility provides for customary events of default and carries cross-default provisions with our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and all of our other debt instruments exceeding $15.0 million in borrowings. If an event of default (as defined in the credit facility) occurs and is continuing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the credit facility, amounts outstanding under the credit facility may be accelerated and may become or be declared immediately due and payable.  

 The credit facility is secured by a pledge of the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets. Our U.S. subsidiaries also guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under the credit facility.  

 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 As of December 31, 2010, none of our 3.75% Notes were outstanding. The 3.75% Notes were originally issued in April 2006 for an aggregate principal amount of $143.8 million and required semi-annual interest payments on April 30 and October 30 until maturity.  

 On May 14, 2010, we redeemed all of the $143.8 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 3.75% Notes at a redemption price of 101.607% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of redemption. The redemption resulted in the payment of the aggregate redemption price of $146.1 million and the recognition of a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $7.1 million. Included in the loss on early extinguishment of debt was a non-cash loss of $3.5 million related to the difference between the net carrying value and the estimated fair value of the 3.75% Notes calculated as of the date of redemption, the payment of $2.3 million representing the 1.607% redemption premium above par value and a non-cash loss of $1.3 million from the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred financing costs related to the 3.75% Notes.  

 The $126.6 million of convertible subordinated notes on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 was presented net of a debt discount of $17.2 million, which was being amortized as interest expense. The effective interest rate that was used to calculate total interest expense for the 3.75% Notes was 7.85%.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

 As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations, commitments to expand our fiber optic networks, surety guarantees, multi-employer pension plan liabilities and obligations relating to certain joint venture arrangements. Certain joint venture structures involve risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. For certain joint ventures, we have guaranteed all of the obligations of the joint venture under a contract with the customer. Additionally, other joint venture arrangements qualify as a general partnership, for which we are jointly and severally liable for all of the obligations of the joint venture. In each joint venture arrangement, each joint venturer has indemnified the other party for any liabilities incurred in excess of the liabilities for which such other party is obligated to bear under the respective joint venture agreement. Other than as previously discussed, we have not engaged in any material off-balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities, and we have no material guarantees of the work or obligations of third parties.  

 Leases  

 We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.  

 We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference between this residual value and the    

 45   

 fair market value of each underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum guaranteed residual value was approximately $116.4 million. We believe that no significant payments will be made as a result of the difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future significant payments will not be required.  

 Letters of Credit  

 Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.  

 As of December 31, 2010, we had $177.0 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with maturities generally expiring at various times throughout 2011. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods.  

 Performance Bonds and Parent Guarantees  

 Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Under our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and with the consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have granted security interests in certain of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the sureties. In addition, we have assumed obligations with other sureties with respect to bonds issued on behalf of acquired companies that were outstanding as of the applicable dates of acquisition. To the extent these bonds have not expired or been replaced, we may be required to transfer to the applicable sureties certain of our assets as collateral in the event of default under these other agreements. We may be required to post letters of credit or other collateral in favor of the sureties or our customers in the future. Posting letters of credit in favor of the sureties or our customers would reduce the borrowing availability under our credit facility. To date, we have not been required to make any reimbursements to our sureties for bond-related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund significant claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was approximately $1.10 billion, and the estimated cost to complete these bonded projects was approximately $521.4 million.  

 From time to time, we guarantee the obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries, including obligations under certain contracts with customers, certain lease obligations and, in some states, obligations in connection with obtaining contractors’ licenses.   

 46   

 Contractual Obligations  

 As of December 31, 2010, our future contractual obligations are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The committed capital expenditures for fiber optic networks represent commitments related to signed contracts with customers. The amounts are estimates of costs required to build the networks under contract. The actual capital expenditures related to building the networks could vary materially from these estimates.  

 As of December 31, 2010, the total unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions was $50.6 million. We estimate that none of this will be paid within the next twelve months. However, we believe that it is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months unrecognized tax benefits may decrease up to $8.8 million due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of future cash outflows, if any, associated with the remaining unrecognized tax benefits.  

 The above table does not reflect estimated contractual obligations under the multi-employer pension plans in which our union employees participate. Certain of our operating units are parties to various collective bargaining agreements that require us to provide to the employees subject to these agreements specified wages and benefits, as well as to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans. Our multi-employer pension plan contribution rates are determined annually and assessed on a “pay-as-you-go” basis based on our union employee payrolls, which cannot be determined for future periods because the location and number of union employees that we have employed at any given time and the plans in which they may participate vary depending on the projects we have ongoing at any time and the need for union resources in connection with those projects. Additionally, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multi-employer plan in the event of the employer’s withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plan. None of our operating units have any current plans to withdraw from these plans, and accordingly, no withdrawal liabilities are reflected in the above table. We may also be required to make additional contributions to our multi-employer pension plans if they become underfunded, and these additional contributions will be determined based on our union employee payrolls. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,” “seriously endangered,” or “critical” status. For a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions may apply. A number of multi-employer plans to which Quanta operating units contribute or may contribute in the future are in “critical” status. Certain of these plans may require additional contributions, generally in the form of a surcharge on future benefit contributions required for future work performed by union employees covered by these plans. The amount of additional funds, if any, that we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated and is not included in the above table, as such amounts will likely be based on future levels of work that require the specific use of those union employees covered by these plans.  

 Self-Insurance  

 We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of    

 47   

 $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $216.8 million and $184.7 million, with $164.3 million and $130.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $66.3 million and $33.7 million, of which $9.4 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $56.9 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

 Concentration of Credit Risk  

 We are subject to concentrations of credit risk related primarily to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. In accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. Although we do not currently believe the principal amount of these investments is subject to any material risk of loss, the weakness in the economy has significantly impacted the interest income we receive from these investments and is likely to continue to do so in the future. In addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power, natural gas and pipeline companies, telecommunications service providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States and Canada. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States and Canada, which may be heightened as a result of depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed over the past two years. However, we generally have certain statutory lien rights with respect to services provided. Under certain circumstances, such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. In such circumstances, extended time frames may be required to liquidate these assets, causing the amounts realized to differ from the value of the assumed receivable. Historically, some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties, and others may experience financial difficulties in the future. These difficulties expose us to increased risk related to collectability of receivables and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts for services we have performed. One customer accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 12% of billed and accrued receivables at December 31, 2010. Business with this customer is included in the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment. No other customer represented 10% or more of revenues during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008 or of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2010 or 2009.  

 Litigation  

 We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and/or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or    

 48   

 declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record a reserve when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, we disclose matters for which management believes a material loss is at least reasonably possible. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding litigation and claims.  

 Related Party Transactions  

 In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions from time to time with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of certain acquired companies and payables to prior owners who are now employees.  

 Inflation  

 Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements. On January 1, 2010, we adopted new standards aimed to improve the visibility of off-balance sheet vehicles previously exempt from consolidation and address practice issues involving the accounting for transfers of financial assets as sales or secured borrowings. The impact from the adoption of these new standards was not material.  

 During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, we adopted a new standard to improve disclosures related to finance receivables (defined as a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset on the creditor’s balance sheet) and allowances for credit losses. The impact from the adoption of this new standard was not material.  

 In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. The update requires the pro forma information for business combinations to be presented as if the business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior annual reporting period when calculating both the current reporting period and the prior reporting period pro forma financial information. The update also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. The amended guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. We adopted the update in the fourth quarter of 2010. The impact from this update was not material.  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date the consolidated financial statements are published and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented. We review all significant estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and record the effect of any necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on our beliefs and assumptions derived from information available at the time such judgments and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of financial statements. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting    

 49   

 estimates with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:  

 Revenue Recognition  

 Infrastructure Services — Through our Electric Power Infrastructure Services, Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services and Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segments, we design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, natural gas, oil, and telecommunications industries. These services may be provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Pricing under these contracts may be competitive unit price, cost-plus/hourly (or time and materials basis) or fixed price (or lump sum basis), and the final terms and prices of these contracts are frequently negotiated with the customer. Under unit-based contracts, the utilization of an output-based measurement is appropriate for revenue recognition. Under these contracts, we recognize revenue as units are completed based on pricing established between us and the customer for each unit of delivery, which best reflects the pattern in which the obligation to the customer is fulfilled. Under our cost-plus/hourly and time and materials type contracts, we recognize revenue on an input basis, as labor hours are incurred and services are performed.  

 Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for each contract. These contracts provide for a fixed amount of revenues for the entire project. Such contracts provide that the customer accept completion of progress to date and compensate us for services rendered, which may be measured in terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress. Contract costs include all direct materials, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Much of the materials associated with our work are owner-furnished and are therefore not included in contract revenues and costs. The cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements are factors that influence management’s assessment of total contract value and the total estimated costs to complete those contracts and therefore, our profit recognition. Changes in these factors may result in revisions to costs and income, and their effects are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates used for revenue recognition and claim assessments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.  

 We may incur costs subject to change orders, whether approved or unapproved by the customer, and/or claims related to certain contracts. We determine the probability that such costs will be recovered based upon evidence such as past practices with the customer, specific discussions or preliminary negotiations with the customer or verbal approvals. We treat items as a cost of contract performance in the period incurred if it is not probable that the costs will be recovered or will recognize revenue if it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and can be reliably estimated. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $83.1 million of change orders and/or claims that had been included as contract price adjustments on certain contracts which were in the process of being negotiated in the normal course of business.  

 The current asset “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed for fixed price contracts. The current liability “Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents billings in excess of revenues recognized for fixed price contracts.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing — The Fiber Optic Licensing segment constructs and licenses the right to use fiber optic telecommunications facilities to its customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. Revenues, including any initial fees or advance billings, are recognized ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, initial fees and advance billings on these licensing agreements not yet recorded in revenue were $44.4 million and $35.9 million and are recognized as    

 50   

 deferred revenue, with $34.7 million and $25.4 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Actual revenues may differ from those estimates if the contracts are not renewed as expected.  

 Self-Insurance. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $216.8 million and $184.7 million, with $164.3 million and $130.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $66.3 million and $33.7 million, of which $9.4 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $56.9 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

 Valuation of Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with our acquisitions. Goodwill is subject to an annual assessment for impairment using a two-step fair value-based test, which we perform at the operating unit level. Each of our operating units is organized into one of three internal divisions, which are closely aligned with our reportable segments, based on the predominant type of work performed by the operating unit at the point in time the divisional designation is made. Because separate measures of assets and cash flows are not produced or utilized by management to evaluate segment performance, our impairment assessments of our goodwill do not include any consideration of assets and cash flows by reportable segment. As a result, we have determined that our individual operating units represent our reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill impairments.  

 Our goodwill impairment assessment is performed annually at year-end, or more frequently if events or circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. For instance, a decrease in our market capitalization below book value, a significant change in business climate or a loss of a significant customer, among other things, may trigger the need for interim impairment testing of goodwill associated with one or all of our reporting units. The first step of the two-step fair value-based test involves comparing the fair value of each of our reporting units with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded as a reduction to goodwill with a corresponding charge to operating expense.  

 We determine the fair value of our reporting units using a weighted combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches, with heavier weighting on the discounted cash flow method, as in management’s opinion, this method currently results in the most accurate calculation of a reporting unit’s fair value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates, weighted average costs of capital and future market conditions, among others. We believe that the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable and based on available market    

 51   

 information, but variations in any of the assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated.  

 Under the discounted cash flow method, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted to present value using risk-adjusted industry discount rates, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Cash flow projections are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts (typically a three-year model) plus an estimate of later period cash flows, all of which are evaluated by management. Subsequent period cash flows are developed for each reporting unit using growth rates that management believes are reasonably likely to occur along with a terminal value derived from the reporting unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The EBITDA multiples for each reporting unit are based on trailing twelve-month comparable industry data.  

 Under the market multiple and market capitalization approaches, we determine the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units by applying transaction multiples to each reporting unit’s projected EBITDA and then averaging that estimate with similar historical calculations using either a one, two or three year average. For the market capitalization approach, we add a reasonable control premium, which is estimated as the premium that would be received in a sale of the reporting unit in an orderly transaction between market participants.  

 The projected cash flows and estimated levels of EBITDA by reporting unit were used to determine fair value under the three approaches discussed herein. The following table presents the significant estimates used by management in determining the fair values of our reporting units at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 For recently acquired reporting units, a step one impairment test may not indicate an implied fair value that is substantially different from the reporting unit’s carrying value. Such similarities in value are generally an indication that management’s estimates of future cash flows associated with the recently acquired reporting unit remain relatively consistent with the assumptions that were used to derive its initial fair value. During the fourth quarter of 2010, a goodwill impairment analysis was performed for each of our operating units, which indicated that the implied fair value of each of our operating units was substantially in excess of carrying value. As discussed generally above, when evaluating the 2010 step one impairment test results, management considered many factors in determining whether or not an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit was reasonably likely to occur in future periods, including future market conditions and the economic environment in which our reporting units were operating. Circumstances such as continued market declines, the loss of a major customer or other factors could impact the valuation of goodwill in future periods.  

 During 2010, 2009 and 2008, a goodwill analysis was performed for each operating unit with estimates and industry comparables obtained from the electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and fiber optic licensing industries. The 15-year discounted cash flow model used for fiber optic licensing was based on the long-term nature of the underlying fiber network licensing agreements.  

 We assigned a higher weighting to the discounted cash flow approach during each year to reflect increased expectations of market value being determined from a “held and used” model. At December 31, 2009, we decreased EBITDA multiples at operating units from 2008 to reflect potential declines in market conditions as a result of the    

 52   

 continued effect of the economic recession which began in late 2008. At December 31, 2010, certain EBITDA multiples were increased slightly from 2009 to reflect more favorable market conditions as the effects of the economic recession have lessened. In general, our selected EBITDA multiples used at December 31, 2010 are consistent with those used at December 31, 2009.  

 As stated previously, cash flows are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts that have been evaluated by management. In connection with the 2010 assessment, projected growth rates by reporting unit varied widely with ranges from 0% to 36% for operating units in the electric power and the natural gas and pipeline divisions, 0% to 57% for operating units in telecommunications and 0% to 34% for the operating unit in fiber optic licensing.  

 Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Changes in our judgments and projections could result in a significantly different estimate of the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets and could result in an impairment. Variances in the assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital, growth rates and acquisition multiples applied could have an impact on the assessment of impairments and any amount of goodwill impairment charges recorded. For example, lower growth rates, lower acquisition multiples or higher costs of capital assumptions would all individually lead to lower fair value assessments and potentially increased frequency or size of goodwill impairments. Any goodwill or other intangible impairment would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 Based on the first step of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that, as of December 31, 2010, the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value. We considered the sensitivity of these fair value estimates to changes in certain of management’s assumptions, and after giving consideration to at least a 10% decrease in the fair value of each of our reporting units, the results of our assessment would not have changed. Additionally, we compared the sum of fair values of our reporting units to our market capitalization at December 31, 2010 and determined that the excess of the aggregate fair value of all reporting units to our market capitalization reflected a reasonable control premium. Our market capitalization at December 31, 2010 was approximately $4.28 billion, and our total equity was approximately $3.37 billion. Accordingly, we determined that there was no goodwill impairment at December 31, 2010. Increases in the carrying value of individual reporting units that may be indicated by our impairment tests are not recorded, therefore we may record goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair value of our reporting units as a whole may increase.  

 We and our customers continue to operate in a challenging business environment, with increasing regulatory requirements and only gradual recovery in the economy and capital markets from recessionary levels. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions have had or may have on them. Certain of our customers have reduced spending in the past two years, which we attribute to the negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these negative conditions may continue to affect demand for some of our services in the near-term. We continue to evaluate the impact of the economic environment on our reporting units and the valuation of recorded goodwill. Although we are not aware of circumstances that would lead to a goodwill impairment at a reporting unit currently, circumstances such as a continued market decline, the loss of a major customer or other factors could impact the valuation of goodwill in the future.  

 Our goodwill is included in multiple reporting units. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the profitability of our individual reporting units may suffer from downturns in customer demand and other factors. These factors may have a disproportionate impact on the individual reporting units as compared to Quanta as a whole and might adversely affect such fair value of individual reporting units. If material adverse conditions occur that impact our reporting units, our future estimates of fair value may not support the carrying amount of one or more of our reporting units, and the related goodwill would need to be written down to an amount considered recoverable.  

 Valuation of Other Intangibles. Our intangible assets include customer relationships, backlog, trade names, non-compete agreements and patented rights and developed technology. The value of customer relationships is estimated using the value-in-use concept utilizing the income approach, specifically the excess earnings method. The excess earnings analysis consists of discounting to present value the projected cash flows attributable to the customer relationships, with consideration given to customer contract renewals, the importance or lack thereof of    

 53   

 existing customer relationships to our business plan, income taxes and required rates of return. We value backlog based upon the contractual nature of the backlog within each service line, using the income approach to discount back to present value the cash flows attributable to the backlog. The value of trade names is estimated using the relief-from-royalty method of the income approach. This approach is based on the assumption that in lieu of ownership, a company would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of this intangible asset.  

 We amortize intangible assets based upon the estimated consumption of the economic benefits of each intangible asset or on a straight-line basis if the pattern of economic benefits consumption cannot otherwise be reliably estimated. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For instance, a significant change in business climate or a loss of a significant customer, among other things, may trigger the need for interim impairment testing of intangible assets. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  

 Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. This requires us to make long-term forecasts of the future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. Forecasts require assumptions about demand for our products and future market conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized. Future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Such expense would be reflected in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other intangibles and periodically review these estimates to determine whether these lives are appropriate.  

 Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is considered doubtful, and receivables are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectible. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic and market conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. Material changes in our customers’ business or cash flows, which may be further impacted by unfavorable economic and market conditions, could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. Should customers experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided.  

 Income Taxes. We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered or settled.  

 We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain. The estimation of required valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to the extent estimated.  

 We record reserves for expected tax consequences of uncertain tax positions assuming that the taxing authorities have full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. The income tax laws and regulations are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our tax positions that could materially affect amounts recognized in our future consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations.   

 54   

 Outlook  

 We and our customers continue to operate in a difficult business environment, with only gradual improvements in the economy and continuing uncertainty in the marketplace. Our customers are also facing stringent regulatory requirements as they implement projects to enhance the overall state of their infrastructure, which has resulted in reductions or delays in spending in 2010. These economic and regulatory factors negatively affected our results in 2010. We believe, however, that economic conditions will continue to improve and market constraints will lessen, resulting in increased activity and spending in the industries we serve in 2011 and beyond, although the regulatory obstacles our customers must overcome create continuing uncertainty as to the timing of spending. We continue to be optimistic, however, about our long-term opportunities in each of the industries we serve, and we believe that our financial and operational strengths will enable us to manage the challenges and uncertainties created by the adverse economic and market conditions.  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment  

 The North American electric grid is aging and requires significant upgrades to meet future demands for power. Over the past several years, many utilities across the country have begun to implement plans to improve their transmission systems. As a result, new construction, structure change-outs, line upgrades and maintenance projects on many transmission systems are occurring or planned. Indications are that the long-awaited transmission build-out programs by our customers has begun. In the second half of 2010 and in early 2011, several large-scale transmission projects were awarded, which is indicative that transmission spending is beginning to increase. Regulatory processes remain a hurdle for some proposed transmission projects, continuing to cause delays and create uncertainty as to timing on some transmission spending. We anticipate, however, these hurdles to be overcome and transmission spending to accelerate over the next few years.  

 We also anticipate that utilities will continue to integrate “smart grid” technologies into their transmission and distribution systems to improve grid management and create efficiencies. Development and installation of smart grid technologies have benefited from stimulus funding and the desire by consumers for more efficient energy use. With respect to our electric power distribution services, we have seen a slowdown in spending by our customers over the past two years on their distribution systems, which we believe is due primarily to adverse economic and market conditions. Although we saw some increase in spending in the latter part of 2010, we expect distribution spending to remain at low levels into 2011. As an indirect result of the prolonged economic downturn, overall growth in demand for electricity decreased, which could also affect the timing and scope of transmission and distribution spending by our customers on their existing systems or planned projects. We believe, however, that utilities remain committed to the expansion and strengthening of their transmission infrastructure, with planning, engineering and funding for many of their projects in place, and to date, we have not seen the current economic conditions negatively impact our customers’ plans for spending on transmission expansion, with demand for electricity and the need for reliability expected to increase over the long-term. As a result of these and other factors, including the renewable energy initiatives discussed below, we anticipate a continued shift over the long-term in our electric power service mix to a greater proportion of high-voltage electric power transmission and substation projects. Many of these projects have a long-term horizon, and timing and scope can be affected by numerous factors, including regulatory permitting, siting and right-of-way issues, environmental approvals and economic and market conditions.  

 We believe that opportunities also exist as a result of renewable energy initiatives. We saw an increase in renewable energy spending in 2010, and we expect future spending on renewable energy initiatives to continue to increase, particularly in connection with solar power, in 2011 and beyond. State renewable portfolio standards, which set required or voluntary standards for how much power is required to be generated from renewable energy sources, as well as general environmental concerns, are driving the development of renewable energy projects, with a stronger focus currently on utility-scale and distributed solar projects. Tax incentives and government stimulus funds are also expected to encourage development. We expect the construction of renewable energy facilities, including solar power and wind generation sources, to result in the need for additional transmission lines and substations to transport the power from the facilities, which are often in remote locations, to demand centers. We also believe opportunities exist for us to provide engineering, project management, materials procurement and installation services for renewable projects, as reflected by recent awards to us of contracts for these services on    

 55   

 various utility-scale solar facilities. However, the economic feasibility of renewable energy projects, and therefore the attractiveness of investment in the projects, may depend on the availability of tax incentive programs or the ability of the projects to take advantage of such incentives, and there is no assurance that the government will extend existing tax incentives or create new incentive or funding programs. The timing of investments in renewable energy projects and related infrastructure could also be affected by regulatory permitting processes and siting issues, as well as capital constraints if the financial markets deteriorate. Furthermore, to the extent that renewable energy projects are developed to satisfy mandatory state renewable portfolio standards, spending on such projects would likely decline if states were to lessen those standards.  

 We believe that certain provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), enacted in February 2009, will also increase demand for our services in 2011 and beyond. The economic stimulus programs under the ARRA include incentives in the form of grants, loans, tax cuts and tax incentives for renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. Additionally, loan guarantee programs partially funded through the ARRA and cash grant programs have been implemented for renewable energy and transmission reliability and efficiency projects. For example, in October 2009, approximately $3.4 billion in cash grants were awarded to foster the transition to a “smarter” electric grid. We anticipate investments in many of these initiatives to create opportunities for our operations, although many projects are waiting on regulatory approval. While we cannot predict with certainty the timing of the implementation of the programs under the ARRA, the funding of stimulus projects or the scope of projects once funding is received, we anticipate projects to have aggressive deployment schedules due to the deadlines under the stimulus plan, resulting in increased opportunities in the near term.  

 Several existing, pending or proposed legislative or regulatory actions may also positively affect demand for the services provided by this segment in the long-term, in particular in connection with electric power infrastructure and renewable energy spending. For example, legislative or regulatory action that alleviates some of the siting and right-of-way challenges that impact transmission projects would potentially accelerate future transmission projects. We also anticipate increased infrastructure spending by our customers as a result of legislation requiring the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and providing further incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems. Additionally, the proposed federal renewable portfolio standard could further advance the installation of renewable generation facilities and related electric transmission infrastructure. It is uncertain, however, if or when pending or proposed legislation or regulations will be effective or whether the potentially beneficial provisions we highlight in this outlook will be included in the final legislation, and this uncertainty could affect our customers’ decisions regarding potential projects and the timing thereof.  

 Several industry and market trends are also prompting customers in the electric power industry to seek outsourcing partners. These trends include an aging utility workforce, increasing costs and labor issues. The need to ensure available labor resources for larger projects is also driving strategic relationships with customers.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment  

 We also see potential growth opportunities over the long-term in our natural gas and pipeline operations, primarily in natural gas and oil pipeline installation and maintenance and related services such as gas gathering and pipeline integrity. We believe our position as a leading provider of transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North America will allow us to take advantage of these opportunities. However, the natural gas and oil industry is cyclical as a result of fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices, and spending in this industry has been negatively impacted in the past by lower natural gas and oil prices, a reduction in the development of resources, regulatory permitting processes and capital constraints. We believe that the cyclical nature of this business can be somewhat normalized by opportunities associated with an increase in the ongoing development of unconventional shale formations that produce natural gas and/or oil, as well as the development of Canadian oil sands, requiring the construction of transmission pipeline infrastructure to connect production with demand centers. Additionally, we believe the goals of clean energy and energy independence for the United States and Canada will make abundant, low-cost natural gas the fuel of choice to replace coal for power generation until renewable energy becomes a significant part of the overall generation of electricity, creating the demand for additional production of natural gas and the need for related infrastructure. The U.S. Department of Transportation has also implemented significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline    

 56   

 integrity requirements that we expect will increase the demand for our pipeline integrity and rehabilitation services over the long-term. In the past, our natural gas operations have been challenged by lower margins overall, due in part to the impact to our natural gas distribution services from declines in new housing construction. As a result, we have primarily focused our efforts in this segment on transmission pipeline opportunities and other more profitable services, and we are optimistic about these operations in the future. The timing and scope of projects could be affected, however, by economic and market conditions as well as lower natural gas and oil prices and regulatory requirements, especially in the near-term. Our specific opportunities in the transmission pipeline business are sometimes difficult to predict because of the seasonality of the bidding and construction cycles within the industry. Projects are often bid and awarded in the first part of the year, with construction activities compressed in the third and fourth quarters of the year. As a result, we often are limited in our ability to determine the outlook, including backlog, for this business until we near the close of the bidding cycle.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment  

 In connection with our telecommunications services, we expect increasing opportunities in the future as stimulus funding for broadband deployment to underserved areas progresses through the engineering phase into construction. Approximately $7.2 billion in funding has been awarded under the ARRA for numerous broadband deployment projects across the U.S. However, to receive funding for these projects, awardees are generally required to file environmental impact statements, the approval of which has delayed and may continue to delay projects. If funding is delayed, the demand for our telecommunications services will be affected. Although the timing of funding is uncertain, once funding is received, projects are expected to be rapidly deployed to meet stimulus deadlines that require completion of the project within three years, which for many projects will extend through 2013. As a result, we anticipate this deployment schedule will increase spending over the next three years. We also anticipate spending by our customers on fiber optic “backhaul” to provide links from wireless cell sites to broader voice, data and video networks. In connection with our wireless services, several wireless companies have announced plans to increase their cell site deployments over the next few years, including the expansion of next generation technology. In particular, the transition to 4G and LTE (long term evolution) technology by wireless service providers will require the enhancement of their networks. We also believe opportunities remain over the long-term as a result of fiber build-out initiatives by wireline carriers and government organizations, although we do not expect spending for these initiatives to increase significantly over the levels experienced in the past two years. We anticipate that the opportunities in both wireline and wireless businesses will increase demand for our telecommunications services over the long-term, with the timing and amount of spending from these opportunities being dependent on future economic, market and regulatory conditions.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment  

 Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is experiencing growth primarily through geographic expansion, with a focus on markets where secure high-speed networks are important, such as markets where enterprises, communications carriers and educational, financial services and healthcare institutions are prevalent. We continue to see opportunities for growth both in the markets we currently serve and new markets, although we cannot predict the adverse impact, if any, of economic conditions on these growth opportunities. To support the growth in this business, we anticipate the need for continued capital expenditures. This growth, however, has been affected in the education markets, which has in the past comprised a significant portion of this segment’s revenues. We believe this slow down is due to budgetary constraints that will continue to affect this segment’s customers in the near term. Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment typically generates higher margins than our other operations, but we can give no assurance that the Fiber Optic Licensing segment margins will continue at historical levels.  

 Conclusion  

 Spending by our customers declined in 2009 and remained slow throughout 2010; however, we are seeing growth opportunities beginning in 2011 in our electric transmission, gas transmission, telecommunications, renewables and fiber licensing operations despite negative effects from the economic recession and heightened regulatory requirements. We expect spending on electric distribution and gas distribution services, both of which have been more significantly affected by the economic conditions that have existed during the past two years, to remain slow in the near term. The weakness in the capital markets has also negatively affected some of our    

 57   

 customers’ plans for projects, and it may continue to do so in the future, which could delay, reduce or suspend future projects if funding is not available. However, we do not believe these factors are material or will significantly affect revenue growth in 2011 and beyond. We anticipate that utilities will increase spending on projects to upgrade and build out their transmission systems and outsource more of their work, due in part to their aging workforce issues. We believe that we remain the partner of choice for many utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources. We also believe that we are one of the largest full-service solution providers of natural gas transmission and distribution services in North America, which positions us to leverage opportunities in the natural gas industry. Furthermore, as new technologies emerge in the future for communications and digital services such as voice, video and data, telecommunications and cable service providers are expected to work quickly to deploy fast, next-generation fiber and wireless networks, and we are recognized as a key partner in deploying these services.  

 We also expect to continue to see our margins generally improve over the long-term, although reductions in spending by our customers and competitive pricing environments negatively impacted our margins during 2010 and could further affect our margins in the future. Additionally, margins may be negatively impacted on a quarterly basis due to adverse weather conditions, timing of projects and other factors as described in “Understanding Margins” above. We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can control, including costs, the margins we accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and rightsizing initiatives to match the markets we serve.  

 Capital expenditures for 2011 are expected to be between $180 million to $210 million, of which approximately $30 million to $35 million of these expenditures are targeted for fiber optic network expansion with the majority of the remaining expenditures for operating equipment. We expect 2011 capital expenditures to continue to be funded substantially through internal cash flows and cash on hand.  

 We continue to evaluate other potential strategic acquisitions or investments to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We believe that additional attractive acquisition candidates exist primarily as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.  

 We believe certain international regions also present significant opportunities for growth across many of our operations. We are strategically evaluating ways in which we can apply our expertise to strengthen the infrastructure in various foreign countries where infrastructure enhancements are increasingly important. For example, we are actively pursuing opportunities in growth markets where we can leverage our technology or proprietary work methods, such as our energized services, to establish a presence in these markets.  

 We believe that we are adequately positioned to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve because of our proven full-service operations with broad geographic reach, financial capability and technical expertise. Additionally, we believe that these industry opportunities and trends will increase the demand for our services over the long-term; however, we cannot predict the actual timing, magnitude or impact these opportunities and trends will have on our operating results and financial position.  

 Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the “safe harbor” from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:  

    •   Projected revenues, earnings per share, other operating or financial results and capital expenditures;   

    •   Expectations regarding our business outlook, growth or opportunities in particular markets;   

    •   The expected value of, and the scope, services, term and results of any related projects awarded under agreements for services to be provided by Quanta;     

 58   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Those statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 59   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements or that are otherwise included in this report. In addition, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or otherwise.   

 60   

  ITEM 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk