Item 1A—Risk Factors 

Risks Relating to our Business and the Insurance Industry  

This section describes material risks affecting the Group's business. These risks could materially affect the Group's business, its revenues, operating income, net income, net assets, liquidity and capital resources and ability to achieve its financial targets and, accordingly should be read in conjunction with any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Premiums and Commissions—We do not control the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.  

We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services. We do not determine insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. From the late 1980s through late 2000, insurance premium rates generally declined as a result of a number of factors, including the expanded underwriting capacity of insurance carriers; consolidation of both insurance intermediaries and insurance carriers; and increased competition among insurance carriers. During 2004, we saw a rapid transition from a "hard" market, with premium rates stable or increasing, to a "soft" market, with premium rates falling in most markets. Rates have continued to decline in most sectors through 2005 and 2006, with the exception of catastrophe-exposed markets. In 2007, the market has softened further with decreases in many of the market sectors in which we operate, including declines of between 5 and 20 percent in many territories.   

In addition, as traditional risk-bearing insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated agents or brokers such as ourselves, those insurance carriers may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability.  

Regulation—We are subject to insurance industry regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to conduct our business.  

Many of our activities are subject to regulatory supervision in virtually all the countries in which we are based or our activities are undertaken. Failure to comply with some of these regulations could lead to disciplinary action, including requiring clients to be compensated for loss, the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate. In addition, changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, could from time to time require operational improvements or modifications at various locations which could result in higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business.  

Regulation—We are subject to a number of investigations and legal proceedings concerning contingent compensation, other industry practices and certain conduct, which, if determined unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our financial results.  

We have been subject to investigations by the departments of insurance or attorneys general of   

13 

over 20 states, the District of Columbia, one US city, Canada and Australia concerning, among other things, arrangements pursuant to which insurers compensated insurance brokers for distribution and other services provided to insurers known as contingent compensation, bid rigging, tying and other possible violations of law, including violations of fiduciary duty, securities laws and antitrust laws.  

In April 2005, we resolved the New York investigation by entering into an Assurance of Discontinuance, or NY AOD, with the New York Attorney General and the New York Superintendent of Insurance, pursuant to which we have paid $50 million to eligible customers. We also agreed to continue, and further implement, certain business reforms. These reforms include an agreement not to accept contingent compensation and an undertaking to disclose to customers any compensation we will receive in connection with providing policy placement services to the customer. We also resolved a similar investigation by the Minnesota Attorney General in 2005 by entering into an Assurance of Discontinuance pursuant to which we paid $1 million to Minnesota customers and implemented the business reforms described in the NY AOD. In July 2007 we resolved a similar investigation by the Florida Attorney General, the Florida Department of Financial Services and the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation by agreeing to reimburse approximately $3 million to Florida public entities who were customers and to reimburse the state for its investigatory costs. While we have fully cooperated with the other investigations, including subpoenas and requests for information, we cannot predict at this time how or when those investigations will be resolved.  

Since August 2004, various plaintiffs have filed purported class actions under a variety of legal theories, including state tort, contract, fiduciary duty and statutory theories, which were consolidated into two actions in federal court in New Jersey. One of the consolidated actions addresses employee benefits insurance, while the other consolidated action addresses all other lines of insurance. In addition to the two consolidated federal actions, we were subsequently named as a defendant in purported   

class actions in New York and Florida. These actions name various insurance carriers and insurance brokerage firms, including us, as defendants. The complaints relate to the practices and conduct that has been the subject of the investigations described above and also allege the existence of a conspiracy among the insurance carriers and brokers. Additionally, the federal court complaints allege violations of the federal antitrust and RICO statutes, however, these claims have been dismissed in the two consolidated federal actions. Additional actions could also be brought in the future by individual policyholders. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. The outcomes of these lawsuits, however, including any losses or other payments that may occur as a result, cannot be predicted at this time.  

Claims, Lawsuits and Other Proceedings—Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions and the outcome of certain actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings.  

We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our clients with matters, including the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against us may arise which allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants can seek large damage awards and these claims can involve potentially significant defense costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations of damages for our employees or sub-agents improperly failing to place coverage or notify claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims, lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered in part by professional   

14 

indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly over recent years. In respect of self-insured risks, we have established provisions against these items which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addition, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.  

The principal actual or potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings to which we are currently subject, including but not limited to errors and omissions claims, are (1) claims relating to services provided by one of our UK subsidiaries, Willis Faber (Underwriting Management) Limited, to another subsidiary, Sovereign Marine & General Insurance Company Limited (in Scheme of Arrangement) ("Sovereign"), that was engaged in insurance underwriting prior to 1991 as well as certain third-party insurance companies; (2) claims with respect to our placement of property and casualty insurance for a number of entities which were directly impacted by the September 11, 2001 destruction of New York's World Trade Center complex; (3) the regulatory and other proceedings relating to contingent compensation arrangements referred to above; (4) potential claims arising out of various legal proceedings between reinsurers, reinsureds and their reinsurance brokers relating to personal accident excess of loss reinsurance placements for the years 1993 to 1998; and (5) potential damages arising out of a court action, on behalf of a purported class of present and former female officer and officer equivalent employees for alleged discrimination against them on the basis of their gender.   

The ultimate outcome of all matters referred to above cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may be adverse publicity associated with these matters that will result in reputational harm to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may adversely affect our business.  

Put and Call Arrangements—We have entered into significant put and call arrangements which require us to pay substantial amounts to purchase shares in one of our associates. Those payments would reduce our liquidity and short-term cash flow.  

In connection with many of our investments in our associates, we retain rights to increase our ownership percentages over time and, in some cases, the existing owners also have a right to put their shares to us. The put arrangement in place for shares of our associate, Gras Savoye, requires us to pay substantial amounts to purchase those shares, which could decrease our liquidity and short-term cash flow.  

The rights under the put arrangement may be exercised through 2011. We will be required to buy shares of Gras Savoye, other than those held by its management, increasing our ownership interest from the 42 percent we currently hold up to 90 percent if all non-management shareholders put their shares under this arrangement. Following our initial acquisition of shares, we acquired an additional 5 percent of Gras Savoye at a cost of $25 million under these arrangements in September 2006 and another 4 percent at a cost of $30 million in January 2008.  

Furthermore, we have agreed with one of the shareholders that they may put their shares representing an additional 5.5 percent to us in December 2008 for a fixed price of $42 million, which would bring our total ownership interest to 48 percent. If the shareholder does not exercise this option they may exercise the   

15 

general put option beginning in January 2009 at a price based on the original contractual formula.  

Management shareholders of Gras Savoye, representing approximately 10 percent of the outstanding shares, do not have general put rights before 2011, but have certain put rights on their death, disability or retirement. Payments in connection with management put rights would not have exceeded $76 million if those rights had been fully exercised at December 31, 2007. In addition, we have a call option to move to majority ownership under certain circumstances and in any event by December 2009. Once we exercise this call option, the remaining Gras Savoye shareholders will have a put option to require us to purchase their shares.  

The incremental 48 percent of Gras Savoye shares held by non-management shareholders may be put to us at a price determined by a contractual formula based on earnings and revenue, which at December 31, 2007 would have amounted to approximately $442 million. The shareholders may put their shares individually at any time during the put period and the amounts we may have to pay in connection with the put arrangements may significantly exceed this estimate. The timing of any exercise of these put and call arrangements could have a material affect on our results of operations or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period.  

Competition—Competition in our industry is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business may be materially adversely affected.  

We face competition in all fields in which we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, the two other providers of global risk management services, as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms. Although Marsh & McLennan and Aon, along with us, have agreed to implement certain business reforms, many specialist, regional and local firms have not agreed to these business reforms. These firms are continuing to accept contingent   

compensation and are not disclosing the compensation received in connection with providing policy placement services to the customer. If we are unable to compete effectively against these competitors, we will suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins and loss of market share.  

Competition for business is intense in all our business lines and in every insurance market, and the other two providers of global risk management services have substantially greater market share than we do. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, many insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buying insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.  

Dependence on Key Personnel—The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives.  

The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph J. Plumeri and a number of our senior management; but also on the individual brokers and teams that service our clients and maintain client relationships. The insurance and reinsurance brokerage industry has in the past experienced intense competition   

16 

for the services of leading individual brokers and brokerage teams, and we have lost key individuals and teams to competitors. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not continue to be successful in doing so because the competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense.  

International Operations—Our significant non-US operations, particularly those in the United Kingdom, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.  

A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.  

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In the United Kingdom, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and the United Kingdom, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2007.   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses creates an exchange exposure. As the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. Given these facts, the strength of the pounds sterling relative to the US dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future.  

Our primary foreign exchange rate risk rises from changes in the exchange rate between US dollars and pounds sterling as our UK operations earn the majority of their revenues in US dollars and incur expenses predominantly in pounds sterling. In addition, the UK operations earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen.  

These risks are hedged as follows:   

•To the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; 

•To the extent the UK operations also earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.  

Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25 percent of the next 12 months' exposure in significant currencies. We do not hedge exposures beyond three years.   

17 

Interruption or loss of our information processing systems or failure to maintain secure information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Our business depends on highly available systems, secure information and the ability of our employees to process transactions. Our capacity to service our clients relies on storing, retrieving, processing and managing information. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, the failure of computer equipment or software systems, telecommunications failure or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by our company, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. Although we have certain disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide services.  

Furthermore, we depend on computer systems to store information about our clients, some of which is private. Database privacy, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern. We have taken reasonable and appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access to information in our database. However, our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we maintain in our databases and protect it from theft or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business.   

Our pension liabilities may increase which could require us to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans.  

We have two principal defined benefit plans: one in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States. Cash contributions of approximately $174 million will be required in 2008 for our pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more. Total cash contributions to these defined benefit pension plans in 2007 were $203 million. Future estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets. Following changes to UK pension legislation in 2005, we are now required to agree a funding strategy for our UK defined benefit plan with the plan's trustees. In July 2007, we agreed to make full year contributions to the UK plan of $149 million for 2007, 2008 and 2009 and $49 million of full year contributions for 2010. We have taken actions to manage our pension liabilities, including closing our UK plan to new participants.  

In addition to the critical assumptions described above, our plans use certain assumptions about the life expectancy of plan participants and surviving spouses. Periodic revision of those assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future decreases in stockholders equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity or that we will not be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been estimated.  

The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial   

18 

statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund our pension plans. Congress recently passed legislation which, among other things, increases the percentage funding target from 90 percent to 100 percent and requires the use of a more current mortality table in the calculation of minimum yearly funding. Our future required cash contributions to our US and UK defined benefit pension plans may increase based on the funding reform provisions that were enacted into law. In addition, if the performance of assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation requires additional contributions to such plans, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future required cash contributions could increase. The need to make these cash contributions may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations, including the payment obligations under our Credit Facility and Senior Notes, or to meet the needs of our business.  

A downgrade in the credit ratings of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility.  

As of December 31, 2007, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $1.3 billion and we expect to incur additional debt as part of our capital management plans. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our debt would increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades would trigger a step-up in interest rates under the indenture for our 6.2 percent Senior Notes which would increase our interest expense. If we need to raise capital in the future, any credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources.   

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.  

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks. Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. The possible effects of economic and financial disruptions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our businesses. These risks include:   

•The general economic and political conditions in foreign countries; 

•The imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; 

•Imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries; 

•Imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; 

•Difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and 

•The requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws as well as laws and regulations applicable to US business operations abroad, including rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the US Office of Foreign Assets Control and the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.   

Item 1B—Unresolved Staff Comments 

The Company had no unresolved comments from the SEC's staff that were issued more than   

180 days prior to the December 31, 2007 fiscal year end.   

Item 2—Properties