Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Financial Risk Management  

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes.  

A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further disclosure is provided in Note 19 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Foreign exchange risk management  

We conduct our business in over 100 currencies. Accordingly, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results.  

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In the United Kingdom, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and the United Kingdom, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2007.   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we reviewed and refined our foreign exchange hedging policy. Our primary foreign exchange rate risk arises from changes in the exchange rate between US dollars and pounds sterling as our UK operations earn revenues in a mixture of currencies and incur expenses predominantly in pounds sterling. In addition, the UK operations earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen.  

Under the amended policy, this risk is hedged as follows:    

•To the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; 

•To the extent our UK operations also earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.   

Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25 percent of the next 12 months' exposure in significant currencies. We do not hedge exposures beyond three years.   

51 

The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the US dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold   

forward and the weighted average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within three years.   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

       [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(1)Represents the difference between the contract amount and the cash flow in US dollars which would have been receivable had the foreign currency forward exchange contracts been entered into on December 31, 2007 or 2006 at the forward exchange rates prevailing at that date.  

Interest rate risk management  

Our operations are financed principally by $1,200 million fixed rate Senior Notes issued by a subsidiary, which are split between $250 million due 2010, $350 million due 2015 and $600 million due 2017. As of December 31, 2007 we had also drawn down $50 million on our $300 million Revolving Credit Facility which expires in 2010. The interest rate applicable to this borrowing is variable according to the period of each individual drawdown.  

We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on   

our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in both US dollars and pounds sterling.  

As a consequence of our insurance and reinsurance broking activities, there is a delay between the time we receive cash for premiums and claims and the time the cash needs to be paid. We earn interest on this float, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as investment income.   

52 

This float is regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which it may be invested, most of which are short-term in maturity. We manage the interest rate risk arising from this exposure primarily through the use of interest rate swaps. It is our policy that, for currencies with significant balances, a minimum of 25 percent of forecast income arising is hedged for each of the next three years.  

The table below provides information about our derivative instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest. For interest rate swaps, the table   

presents notional principal amounts and average interest rates analyzed by expected maturity dates. Notional principal amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. The duration of interest rate swaps varies between one and four years, with re-fixing periods of three months. Average fixed and variable rates are, respectively, the weighted-average actual and market rates for the interest hedges in place. Market rates are the rates prevailing at December 31, 2007 or 2006, as appropriate.   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(1)Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest as appropriate.  

53 

     [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(1)Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest as appropriate.  

54 

WILLIS GROUP HOLDINGS LIMITED 

    Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data