PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Overview  

American Airlines Group Inc. (AAG), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are American Airlines, Inc. (American), Envoy Aviation Group Inc. (Envoy), PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA) and Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont). AAG was formed in 1982 under the name AMR Corporation (AMR) as the parent company of American, which was founded in 1934. On December 9, 2013, a subsidiary of AMR merged with and into US Airways Group, Inc. (US Airways Group), a Delaware corporation, which survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG, and AAG emerged from Chapter 11 (the Merger). Upon closing of the Merger and emergence from Chapter 11, AMR changed its name to American Airlines Group Inc. On December 30, 2015, in order to simplify AAG’s internal corporate structure, US Airways Group merged with and into AAG, with AAG as the surviving corporation and, immediately thereafter, US Airways, Inc. (US Airways), a wholly-owned subsidiary of US Airways Group, merged with and into American, with American as the surviving corporation.  

AAG’s and American’s principal executive offices are located at 4333 Amon Carter Boulevard, Fort Worth, Texas 76155 and our telephone number is 817-963-1234.  

Airline Operations  

Our primary business activity is the operation of a major network carrier, providing scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo.  

Together with our wholly-owned regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers operating as American Eagle, our airline operates an average of nearly 6,700 flights per day to nearly 350 destinations in more than 50 countries, principally from our hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. In 2016, approximately 199 million passengers boarded our mainline and regional flights. During 2016, we launched new nonstop service between Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Hong Kong as well as between LAX and Auckland, New Zealand. We also launched our first-ever regularly scheduled flights to Cuba in 2016 with non-stop service to Havana from Miami and Charlotte and to Cienfuegos, Holguin, Camaguey, Santa Clara and Varadero from Miami, making us amongst the top leaders in air service between the U.S. and Cuba.  

As of December 31, 2016, we operated 930 mainline aircraft and are supported by our regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers, which operated an additional 606 regional aircraft. See Part I, Item 2. Properties for further discussion on our mainline and regional aircraft and “Regional” below for further discussion on our regional operations.  

American is a founding member of the oneworld alliance, whose members and members-elect serve more than 1,000 destinations with approximately 14,250 daily flights to over 150 countries. See “Ticket Distribution and Marketing Agreements” below for further discussion on the oneworld alliance and other agreements with domestic and international airlines.  

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Operational Highlights,” “Financial Overview,” “AAG’s Results of Operations” and “American’s Results of Operations” for further discussion of AAG’s and American’s operating results and operating performance. Also, see Note 13 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 11 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding our operating segments and operating revenue in principal geographic areas.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Regional  

We have arrangements with regional carriers to provide us with regional jet and turboprop service under the brand name “American Eagle.” The American Eagle carriers include our wholly-owned regional carriers, Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, as well as third-party regional carriers including Republic Airline Inc. (Republic), Mesa Airlines, Inc. (Mesa), Air Wisconsin Airlines Corporation (Air Wisconsin), Compass Airlines, LLC (Compass), ExpressJet Airlines, Inc. (ExpressJet), SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Trans States Airlines, Inc. (Trans States). These carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on feeder traffic from these carriers, which transport passengers to our hubs from low-density markets that are not economical for us to serve with larger, mainline aircraft. In addition, regional carriers offer complementary service in our existing mainline markets by operating flights during off-peak periods between mainline flights. During 2016, approximately 54 million passengers boarded our regional carriers’ planes, approximately 44% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights. Of these passengers, approximately 26 million were enplaned by our wholly-owned regional carriers and approximately 28 million were enplaned by third-party regional carriers. All American Eagle carriers use logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to our mainline operations.  

The American Eagle arrangements are principally in the form of capacity purchase agreements. The capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, in-flight, ancillary, mail and freight revenues, go to us. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that we reimburse 100% of certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees and passenger liability insurance. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories.  

A limited number of regional aircraft are operated for us under prorate agreements, under which the regional carriers receive a prorated share of ticket revenue and pay certain service fees to us. The prorate carriers are responsible for all costs incurred operating the applicable aircraft.  

Cargo  

Our cargo division provides a wide range of freight and mail services, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. In 2016, we were named the Cargo Airline of the Year for the second year running and Best Cargo Airline from the Americas for the ninth consecutive year by Air Cargo News.  

Ticket Distribution and Marketing Agreements  

Passengers can purchase tickets for travel on American through several distribution channels, including our website (www.aa.com), our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity). To remain competitive, we need to successfully manage our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.”  

In general, beyond nonstop city pairs, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to transport passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. In order to improve access to domestic and foreign markets, we have arrangements with other airlines including the oneworld alliance, other cooperation agreements, joint business agreements (JBAs), and marketing relationships.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Member of oneworld Alliance  

American is a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes Air Berlin, British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, SriLankan Airlines and TAM Airlines. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ loyalty programs and access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.  

Cooperation and Joint Business Agreements  

American is party to antitrust-immunized cooperation agreements with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair, Royal Jordanian, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines and LAN Peru. American has also established JBAs with British Airways, Iberia and Finnair, and separately Japan Airlines, that enable the carriers to cooperate on flights between particular destinations and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced loyalty program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas. American and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these JBAs and cooperation agreements.  

We signed a revised JBA with Qantas Airways and applied for antitrust immunity with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for the revised relationship, but we withdrew that application in November 2016 after it was tentatively denied by the DOT. However, we expect that our existing, more limited cooperation with Qantas will continue, and we intend to file a new application for antitrust immunity with the DOT later this year. In addition, we have signed JBAs with certain air carriers of the LATAM Airlines Group and have applied for approval in the relevant jurisdictions affected by such agreements, which applications are still pending before the relevant regulators.  

Marketing Relationships  

To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers, including American, have established marketing relationships with other airlines. These marketing agreements generally provide enhanced customer choice by means of an expanded network with reciprocal loyalty program participation and joint sales cooperation. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, Dragonair, EL AL, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hainan Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Interjet, Japan Airlines, Jet Airways, Jetstar Group (includes Jetstar Airways and Jetstar Japan), Korean Air, LATAM (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Colombia, LAN Ecuador, LAN Peru, TAM Airlines and TAM Mercosur), Malaysia Airlines, Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, Seaborne Airlines and WestJet.  

Loyalty Program  

Our loyalty program, AAdvantage® was established to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. AAdvantage was named Best Elite Program in the Americas at the 2016 Freddie Awards. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, any oneworld airline or other partner airlines, or by using the services of over 1,000 program participants, such as the Citi and Barclaycard US co-branded credit cards, hotels and car rental companies. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free or upgraded travel on American and participating airlines, membership to our Admirals Club® or for other non-travel awards from our program participants.  

All travel on eligible tickets counts toward qualification for elite status in the AAdvantage program. Elite members can enjoy additional benefits of the AAdvantage program, including complimentary upgrades, mileage bonuses, complimentary access to Preferred Seats, checked bags at no charge, First and Business Class check-in, priority security, priority boarding and priority baggage delivery.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program partners, we reserve the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months’ notice. Program rules, partners, special offers, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change.  

During 2016, our members redeemed approximately 10 million awards including travel redemptions for flights and upgrades on American and other air carriers, as well as redemption of car and hotel awards, club memberships and merchandise. Approximately 6.3% of our 2016 total revenue passenger miles flown were from award travel.  

In order to ensure we are rewarding our most loyal customers, we announced a program change effective in the second half of 2016 whereby our members began earning mileage credits based on dollars spent rather than distance flown for travel on American-marketed flights. In addition, our members earn bonus mileage credits when elite status is obtained. For every dollar spent, non-status members earn five mileage credits, but Gold, Platinum and Executive Platinum status holders earn bonus mileage credits of seven, eight and eleven mileage credits, respectively. Additionally, in January 2017, we added Platinum Pro as a fourth elite level for members. Platinum Pro status holders earn nine mileage credits for every dollar spent.  

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for more information on our loyalty program.  

Industry Competition  

Domestic  

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. On most of our domestic non-stop routes, we currently face competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline, including: Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines, United Airlines and Virgin America. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. We also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.  

On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, target promotions and loyalty program initiatives. Airlines typically use discount fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally slack travel periods, when they begin service to new cities or when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow, to maximize revenue per available seat mile and to establish, increase or preserve market share. We have often elected to match discount or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market. In addition, low-fare, low-cost carriers, such as Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways, and so-called ultra-low-cost carriers, such as Allegiant Air, Frontier Airlines and Spirit Airlines, compete in many of the markets in which we operate and competition from these carriers is increasing.  

In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle regional carriers increase the number of markets we serve by flying to lower demand markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of our competitors also own or have agreements with regional airlines that provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin  

7  

Table of Contents 

 configuration, amenities provided to passengers, loyalty programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, markets served and other services. We compete with both major network airlines and low-cost carriers throughout our network.  

International  

In addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Central and South America, Asia, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. In providing international air transportation, we compete with U.S. airlines, foreign investor-owned airlines and foreign state-owned or state-affiliated airlines, including carriers based in the Middle East, the three largest of which we believe benefit from significant government subsidies. In order to increase our ability to compete for international air transportation service, which is subject to extensive government regulation, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into marketing relationships, alliances, cooperation agreements and JBAs to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See “Ticket Distribution and Marketing Agreements” above for further discussion.  

Employees and Labor Relations  

The airline business is labor intensive. In 2016, mainline and regional salaries, wages and benefits were our largest expense and represented approximately 35% of our total operating expenses.  

Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act (RLA), which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). When an RLA CBA becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed by the parties. Under the RLA, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare under the RLA at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to binding arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, an initial 30-day “cooling off” period commences. Following the conclusion of that 30-day “cooling off” period, if no agreement has been reached, “self-help” (as described below) can begin unless a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) is established. A PEB examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and (if no resolution is reached) is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period (unless an agreement is reached, a PEB is established or action is taken by Congress), the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments to the CBA and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.  

The table below presents our approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees as of December 31, 2016.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8  

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2016, approximately 85% of our total active employees were represented by various labor unions and CBAs as detailed in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees covered by the contract as of December 31, 2016.  

 (2)   Our union-represented mainline employees are covered by agreements that are not currently amendable. Joint collective bargaining agreements (JCBAs) have been reached with post-Merger employee groups, except the approximately 35,000 maintenance, fleet service, stores and planner employees represented by the TWU-IAM who are covered by separate CBAs that are not yet amendable. Until those agreements become amendable, negotiations for JCBAs will be conducted outside the traditional RLA bargaining process as described above, and, in the meantime, no self-help will be permissible. In August 2016, we reached interim agreements with the TWU-IAM to move the employees they represent to new pay rates and to provide additional flexibility in assigning work to these employees. These new interim agreements provide immediate and significant pay increases and do not constitute new JCBAs, and negotiations for such JCBAs will continue.  

 (3)   Among our wholly-owned regional subsidiaries, the Piedmont fleet and passenger service employees and the PSA mechanics and dispatchers have agreements that are now amendable and are engaged in traditional RLA negotiations. The Envoy passenger service employees are engaged in traditional RLA negotiations for an initial CBA.  

9  

Table of Contents 

None of the unions representing our employees presently may lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance.  

For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations.”  

Aircraft Fuel  

Our operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. Based on our 2017 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that a one cent per gallon increase in aviation fuel price would increase our 2017 annual fuel expense by $43 million.  

The following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for our mainline operations for 2016, 2015 and 2014 (gallons and aircraft fuel expense in millions).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total fuel expenses for our wholly-owned and third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements of American were $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $2.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors.  

Fuel prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Our business is very dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity.”  

Seasonality and Other Factors  

Due to the greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Therefore, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Domestic and Global Regulatory Landscape  

General  

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Domestically, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.  

The DOT, among other things, oversees domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, competition and consumer protection matters such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. The Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ) along with the DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  

The FAA similarly exercises safety oversight and regulates most operational matters of our business, including how we operate and maintain our aircraft. FAA requirements cover, among other things, required technology and necessary onboard equipment; systems, procedures and training necessary to ensure the continuous airworthiness of our fleet of aircraft; safety measures and equipment; crew scheduling limitations and experience requirements; and many other technical aspects of airline operations. Additionally, the FAA sets pilot qualification standards and imposes complex rest requirements for pilots, as well as stringent duty period requirements for pilots and flight attendants.  

The FAA also controls the national airspace system, including operational rules and fees for air traffic control (ATC) services. The efficiency, reliability and capacity of the ATC network has a significant impact on our costs and on the timeliness of our operations.  

The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  

Airport Access and Operations  

Domestically, any U.S. airline authorized by the DOT is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its territories, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations (slots) and other facilities, and certain airports that impose geographic limitations on operations or curtail operations based on the time of day. Operations at three major domestic airports we serve (John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and La Guardia Airport (LGA) in New York City, and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) in Washington, D.C.) and certain foreign airports we serve (including London Heathrow Airport (LHR)) are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms that limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. In addition to slot restrictions, operations at LGA and DCA also are limited based on the stage length of the flight.  

Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports, such as Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD) and LAX, where the airport gate and other facilities are inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide.  

Existing law also permits domestic local airport authorities to implement procedures and impose restrictions designed to abate noise, provided such procedures and restrictions do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Airline Fares, Taxes and User Fees  

Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.  

Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation, and to collect other taxes and charge other fees, such as foreign taxes, security fees and passenger facility charges. Airlines typically collect and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes and fees are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. These taxes and fees are subject to increase from time to time.  

DOT Passenger Protection Rules  

The DOT regulates airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. Among other things, these regulations govern how our fares are displayed online, required customer disclosures, access by disabled passengers, handling of long onboard flight delays and reporting of mishandled bags. In addition, the DOT is likely to issue a regulation in 2017 that would require air carriers to refund checked bag fees in the event of certain delays in delivery.  

International  

International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation, including aviation agreements between the U.S. and other countries or governmental authorities, such as the European Union (EU). Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. The U.S. government has negotiated “open skies” agreements with many countries, which allow unrestricted route authority access between the U.S. and the foreign markets. While the U.S. has worked to increase the number of countries with which open skies agreements are in effect, a number of markets important to us, including China, do not have open skies agreements.  

In addition, foreign countries impose passenger protection rules, which are analogous to, and often meet or exceed the requirements of, the DOT passenger protection rules discussed above. In cases where these foreign requirements exceed the DOT rules, we may bear additional burdens and liabilities. Further, various foreign airport authorities impose noise restrictions at their local airports.  

Security  

Since shortly after the events of September 11, 2001, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security in the U.S. or affecting U.S. carriers have been controlled or regulated by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Requirements include flight deck security; carriage of federal air marshals at no charge; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports; and the provision of certain passenger data to the federal government and other international border security authorities, for security and immigration controls. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer funds. Customs and Border Protection, which, like the TSA, is part of the Department of Homeland  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Security, also promulgates requirements, performs services and collects fees that impact our provision of services. Additionally, we have at times found it necessary or desirable to make significant expenditures to comply with security-related requirements while reducing their impact on our customers, such as expenditures for automated security screening lines at airports.  

Environmental Matters  

Environmental Regulation  

The airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund Act). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.  

Revised underground storage tank regulations issued by the EPA in 2015 could affect airport fuel hydrant systems, as certain of those systems may need to be modified in order to comply with applicable portions of the revised regulations. In addition, related to the EPA and state regulations pertaining to stormwater management, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of deicing fluid into the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport deicing facilities.  

The environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. Our alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are relatively small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs; we anticipate that any future payments of costs at such sites will not have a material impact on our operations.  

Aircraft Emissions and Climate Change Requirements  

Many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations and concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, the EU has established the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to regulate GHG emissions in the EU. The EU adopted a directive in 2008 under which each EU member state is required to extend the ETS to aviation operations. However, the EU ETS has never fully been imposed, in large part due to the global effort to moderate international aviation emissions solely through the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 intended to encourage an international solution through ICAO, but which also authorizes the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS.  

In October 2016, ICAO passed a resolution adopting the ICAO Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. The CORSIA applies to international aviation, and does not directly impact domestic U.S. flights. The CORSIA was supported by the board of Airlines For  

13  

Table of Contents 

 America (the principal U.S. airline trade association), the International Airline Trade Association (IATA) (the principal international airline trade association), and by American and many other U.S. and foreign airlines. The CORSIA will increase operating costs for American and most other airlines, including other U.S. airlines that operate internationally, but the implementation of a global program, as compared to regional emission reduction schemes, should help to ensure that resulting increases in operating costs will be more predictable and more evenly applied to airlines. The CORSIA is expected to be implemented in phases, beginning in 2021. Certain details still need to be developed and the impact of the CORSIA cannot be fully predicted. On February 3, 2017, the European Commission proposed to extend its stay on the extra-territorial application of the EU ETS until 2021, in anticipation of the implementation of the ICAO CORSIA. The EU noted its intent to continue to apply ETS to intra-EU flights until at least 2021, but also stated that this could be revisited in light of the CORSIA. The EU stated that it plans to reevaluate ETS again in 2021, in light of its assessment of the progress to implement the CORSIA. The current EU ETS proposal must be approved through the EU Council and Parliament.  

The EPA recently issued an endangerment finding that aircraft engine GHG emissions cause or contribute to air pollution, which is a precursor to EPA regulation of aircraft engine GHG emission standards. It is anticipated that any such standards established by EPA would closely align with emission standards currently being developed by ICAO. In February 2016, the ICAO Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection recommended that ICAO adopt carbon dioxide certification standards that would apply to new type aircraft certified beginning in 2020, and would be phased in for newly manufactured existing aircraft type designs starting in 2023.  

In addition, several states, including California, have adopted or are considering initiatives to regulate emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emissions inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs.  

We have taken a number of actions that mitigate our GHG emissions and conserve fuel such as:  

   •    Retiring older aircraft and replacing them with new, more fuel-efficient aircraft  

   •    Reducing fuel consumption through our Fuel Smart Program, which is an employee-led effort to safely reduce fuel consumption  

   •    Working with the FAA and vendors to facilitate efficient airspace procedures, which also reduces aircraft emissions  

   •    Replacing existing cargo containers with lightweight versions  

   •    Purchasing new, more fuel-efficient ground support equipment, certain of which is alternative-fuel and electric powered.  

For further information, see our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, available on our website at www.aa.com.  

Impact of Regulatory Requirements on Our Business  

Regulatory requirements, including but not limited to those discussed above, could affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries, and future regulatory developments may continue to do the same in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Ongoing data security requirements and obligations could increase our costs, and any significant data security incident could disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition,” “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be  

14  

Table of Contents 

 unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations,” “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages,” “The airline industry is heavily taxed,” “We are subject to many forms of environmental and noise regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result” and “We are subject to risks associated with climate change, including increased regulation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases” for additional information.  

Available Information  

Use of Websites to Disclose Information  

Our website is located at www.aa.com. We have made and expect in the future to make public disclosures to investors and the general public of information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries by means of the investor relations section of our website as well as through the use of our social media sites, including Facebook and Twitter. In order to receive notification regarding new postings to our website, investors are encouraged to enroll on our website to receive automatic email alerts (see phx.corporate-ir.net/4p0I.URL), join American’s circle (@AmericanAir) on Twitter and “like” American on its Facebook page (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines). None of the information or contents of our website or social media postings is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Availability of SEC Reports  

A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  

15  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK  FACTORS