PART I  

  ITEM 1.    Business    

 General  

 Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company” or “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915. The Company is a multinational manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment with approximately 840 operations in 57 countries. These 840 businesses are internally reported as 60 operating segments to senior management. The Company’s 60 operating segments have been aggregated into the following eight external reportable segments:  

 Transportation: Businesses in this segment produce components, fasteners, fluids and polymers, as well as truck remanufacturing and related parts and service.  

 In the Transportation segment, products and services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Industrial Packaging: Businesses in this segment produce steel, plastic and paper products and equipment used for bundling, shipping and protecting goods in transit.  

 In the Industrial Packaging segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Food Equipment: Businesses in this segment produce commercial food equipment and related service.  

 In the Food Equipment segment, products and services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Power Systems & Electronics: Businesses in this segment produce equipment and consumables associated with specialty power conversion, metallurgy and electronics.  

 In the Power Systems & Electronics segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Construction Products: Businesses in this segment produce tools, fasteners and other products for construction applications.  

 In the Construction Products segment, products include:  

    •   fasteners and related fastening tools for wood and metal applications;     

 2   
    •   anchors, fasteners and related tools for concrete applications;   

    •   metal plate truss components and related equipment and software; and   

    •   packaged hardware, fasteners, anchors and other products for retail.    

 Polymers & Fluids: Businesses in this segment produce adhesives, sealants, lubrication and cutting fluid, and hygiene products.  

 In the Polymers & Fluids segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Decorative Surfaces: Businesses in this segment produce decorative surfacing materials for furniture, office and retail space, countertops, flooring and other applications.  

 In the Decorative Surfaces segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All Other: This segment includes all other operating segments.  

 In the All Other segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 80/20 Business Process  

 A key element of the Company’s business strategy is its continuous 80/20 business process for both existing businesses and new acquisitions. The basic concept of this 80/20 business process is to focus on what is most important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of the value) and to spend less time and resources on the less important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the value). The Company’s operations use this 80/20 business process to simplify and focus on the key parts of their business, and as a result, reduce complexity that often disguises what is truly important. The Company’s 840 operations utilize the 80/20 process in various aspects of their business. Common applications of the 80/20 business process include:  

    •   Simplifying product lines by reducing the number of products offered by combining the features of similar products, outsourcing products or, as a last resort, eliminating low-value products.   

    •   Segmenting the customer base by focusing on the 80/20 customers separately and finding alternative ways to serve the 20/80 customers.   

    •   Simplifying the supplier base by partnering with 80/20 suppliers and reducing the number of 20/80 suppliers.   

    •   Designing business processes, systems and measurements around the 80/20 activities.     

 3   
 The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is that the Company has over time improved its long-term operating and financial performance. These 80/20 efforts can result in restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve margins. Corporate management works closely with those businesses that have operating results below expectations to help those businesses better apply this 80/20 business process and improve their results.  

 Discontinued Operations  

 In August 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the divestiture of the Click Commerce industrial software business which was previously reported in the All Other segment. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company completed the sale of the Click Commerce business.  

 In 2006, the Company divested a construction business. In 2007, the Company divested an automotive machinery business and a consumer packaging business. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company classified an automotive components business and a second consumer packaging business as held for sale. The second consumer packaging business was sold in 2008. The Company completed the divestiture of the automotive components business in 2009.  

 Additionally, in August 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the divestiture of the Decorative Surfaces segment which was subsequently classified as a discontinued operation. In May 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors rescinded its earlier resolution to divest the Decorative Surfaces segment and, accordingly, all periods presented have been restated to present the Decorative Surfaces segment as a continuing operation.  

 Current Year Developments  

 Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 Financial Information about Segments and Markets  

 Segment and operating results of the segments are included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Segment Information note in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

 The principal end markets served by the Company’s eight segments by percentage of revenue are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Company’s businesses primarily distribute their products directly to industrial manufacturers and through independent distributors.   

 4   
 Backlog  

 Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company’s businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of its products. Backlog by segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is summarized as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2010 were not material as of December 31, 2009.  

 The information set forth below is applicable to all industry segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:  

 Competition  

 With approximately 840 business units operating in 57 countries, the Company has a wide diversity of products in a myriad of markets, many of which are fragmented, and we encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product line, end market and geographic area. Our competitors include many regional or specialized companies, as well as large U.S. and non-U.S. companies or divisions of large companies. Each of our segments generally has several main competitors and numerous smaller ones in most of their end markets and geographic areas. In addition, our Decorative Surfaces and Power Systems & Electronics segments each has one global competitor and numerous smaller regional competitors.  

 In virtually all segments, we compete on the basis of product innovation, product quality, brand preference, delivery service and price. Technical capability is also a competitive factor in most of our segments. We believe that for each of our segments, our primary competitive advantages derive from our decentralized operating structure, which creates a strong focus on end markets and customers at the local level, enabling our businesses to respond rapidly to market dynamics. This structure enables our business units to drive operational excellence utilizing our 80/20 business process and leverages our product innovation capabilities. We also believe that our global footprint is a competitive advantage in many of our markets, especially in our Transportation and Decorative Surfaces segments.  

 Raw Materials  

 The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily steel, resins, chemicals and paper, that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and energy has not resulted in any significant business interruptions or other major problems, and no such problems are currently anticipated.  

 Research and Development  

 The Company’s growth has resulted from developing new and improved products, broadening the application of established products, continuing efforts to improve and develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce customers’ costs by eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts in an assembly, or by    

 5   
 improving the quality of customers’ assembled products. Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by working closely with customers on specific applications. Research and development expenses were $198,536,000 in 2009, $212,658,000 in 2008 and $197,595,000 in 2007.  

 The Company owns approximately 3,800 unexpired United States patents covering articles, methods and machines. Many counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has approximately 1,700 applications for patents pending in the United States Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be issued. The Company maintains an active patent department for the administration of patents and processing of patent applications.  

 The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing techniques; skills and efficiency; marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

 Trademarks  

 Many of the Company’s products are sold under various owned or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme, Alpine, Anaerobicos, Angleboard, Apex, Arborite, Ark-Les, Avery Berkel, Avery Weigh-Tronix, Bernard, Betaprint, Binks, Buehler, Buildex, Bycotest, Chemtronics, Covid, Cullen, Deltar, Densit, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Dynatruss, Electrocal, Euromere, Evercoat, E-Z Anchor, Fastex, Filtertek, Foilmark, Forte, Foster, Franklynn, Futura Coatings, Gamko, Gema, GSE, Gymcol, Hartness, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Instron, Intellibuild, Keps, Kester, Krafft, Lachenmeier, Lebo, Loma, LPS, Luvex, Magna, Magnaflux, Meyercord, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Nexus, NorDen, Nylex, Orbitalum, Orgapack, Pacific Polymers, Paktron, Paslode, Peerless, Permatex, Plexus, Polymark, Polyrey, Pro/Mark, Pryda, QMI, QSA, Quipp, Racor, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Resopal, Reyflex, Riderite, Rippey, Rockwell, Rocol, Sentinel, Shakeproof, Shore, Signode, Simco, Solplas, Sonotech, Space Bag, Spectrum, Speedline, Spiroid, SPIT, Spray Nine, Stero, Stokvis, Strapex, Tapcon, Teks, Tempil, Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Tregaskiss, Truswal Systems, Trymer, Valeron, Versachem, Vitronics Soltec, Vulcan, Wachs, WERCS, Wilsonart, Wynn’s and Zip-Pak.  

 Environmental  

 The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not expected to materially affect the Company’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations.  

 Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world relating to manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact on the Company’s revenues or earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to develop and sell environmentally compatible products.  

 Employees  

 The Company employed approximately 59,000 persons as of December 31, 2009 and considers its employee relations to be excellent.  

 International  

 The Company’s international operations include subsidiaries and joint ventures in 56 foreign countries on six continents. These operations serve such end markets as construction, general industrial, automotive, food institutional/restaurant and service, food and beverage, electronics, consumer durables, primary metals, and others on a worldwide basis. The Company’s revenues from sales to customers outside the United States were approximately 57% of revenues in 2009, 58% of revenues in 2008 and 55% of revenues in 2007.   

 6   
 Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Segment Information note in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information on international activities. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates. Additional risks of our international operations are described under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

 Executive Officers  

 Executive Officers of the Company as of February 26, 2010 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for Mses. Brady and Warner and Messrs. Brunner, Gardner, Kropp, Martel, Martindale, Parry, Scheuneman, Valls and Wooten, each of the foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various elected executive capacities for more than five years. Ms. Brady was elected Senior Vice President of Human Resources in 2006. From 1998 to 2006, she was Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer of Snap-On Inc. Ms. Warner was elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as President of worldwide finishing, she was President of Plexus Systems and a Vice President of EDS. Mr. Brunner was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1980 and has held various management positions with the automotive fasteners businesses. Mr. Gardner was elected Executive Vice President in 2009. He joined the Company in 1997 and has held various sales and management positions in the consumer packaging businesses. Most recently, he served as Group President of the consumer packaging businesses. Mr. Kropp was elected Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer in 2006. He joined the Company in 1993. He has held various financial management positions and was appointed as Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting in 2002 and was designated Principal Accounting Officer from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Martel was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994 and has held various management positions in the automotive and metal components businesses. Mr. Martindale was elected Executive Vice President in 2008. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as President of test and measurement, he was Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Instron. Mr. Parry was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994 and has held various management positions in the performance polymers businesses. Mr. Scheuneman was    

 7   
 appointed Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009. Prior to joining the Company in 2009, he held several financial leadership positions at W.W. Grainger, Inc., including Vice President, Finance, for the Lab Safety Supply business from 2006 to 2009, and Vice President, Internal Audit, from 2002 to 2006. He was appointed Principal Accounting Officer in 2009. Mr. Valls was elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to this, he was Vice President and General Manager of ITW Delfast International. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held various management positions in the European automotive businesses. Mr. Wooten was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary in 2006. He joined the Company in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in the legal department.  

 Available Information  

 The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company’s website (www.itw.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Also posted on the Company’s website are the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors