ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors    

 The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 A downturn or further downturn in the markets served by the Company could materially adversely affect results.  

 Substantially all of the Company’s businesses directly or indirectly serve markets that were adversely impacted by the recent global economic crisis. Although improvement is expected, the timing of any economic recovery in the markets we serve remains uncertain. A further downturn in one or more of our significant markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 The global nature of our operations subjects the Company to political and economic risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 The Company currently operates in 57 countries. In 2009, approximately 57% of the Company’s revenues were generated from sales to customers outside of the United States. As the Company continues to expand its global footprint, these sales may represent an increasing portion of the Company’s revenues. The risks inherent in our global operations include:  

    •   fluctuation in currency exchange rates;   

    •   limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;     

 8   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding its international businesses, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital.  

 As part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses in the ordinary course. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability:  

    •   Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable.   

    •   Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our expectations in any given fiscal period, or over the long term.   

    •   Acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results, particularly in light of the adoption of the new accounting guidance related to business combinations, which applies to any acquisition completed in 2009 or later. Under the new accounting guidance, we are required to expense a number of acquisition-related items that under previous accounting rules did not impact our income statement.   

    •   Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems.   

    •   We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated. The realization of any of these liabilities may increase our expenses or adversely affect our financial position.   

    •   As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets.    

 Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.  

 The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.  

 A significant fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating income.  

 Although the Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in other currencies, with the largest concentration of foreign sales occurring in Europe. The Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against the euro and other foreign currencies in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in    

 9   
 relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.  

 Further diminished credit availability could adversely impact our ability to readily obtain financing.  

 A further deterioration in world financial markets and decreases in credit availability could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing when desired or cause the cost of financing to increase.  

 Raw material price increases and supply shortages could adversely affect results.  

 The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component parts suppliers could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Due to pricing pressure or other factors, the Company may not be able to pass along increased raw material and components parts prices to its customers in the form of price increases or its ability to do so could be delayed. Consequently, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.  

 If the Company is unable to successfully introduce new products or adequately protect its intellectual property, its future growth may be impaired.  

 The Company’s ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future revenues and adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.  

 Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected, or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.  

 An unfavorable environment for making acquisitions may adversely affect the Company’s growth rate.  

 The Company has historically followed a strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services as well as larger acquisitions that represent potential new platforms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts, its growth rate could be adversely affected.  

 Unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.   

 10   
 Potential adverse outcome in legal proceedings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company’s businesses expose it to potential toxic tort and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors. The Company currently maintains insurance programs consisting of self insurance up to certain limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over established limits. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance programs will provide adequate protection against actual losses. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and become unable to pay claims that may be made in the future. Even if it maintains adequate insurance programs, successful claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance in the future.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that may be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “guidance,” and other similar words, including, without limitation, statements regarding the availability of raw materials and energy, the expiration of any one of the Company’s patents, the cost of compliance with environmental regulations, the anticipated improvement of worldwide end markets in 2010, the adequacy of internally generated funds and credit facilities, the meeting of dividend payout objectives, the ability to fund debt service obligations, payments under guarantees, the Company’s portion of future benefit payments related to pension and postretirement benefits, expected contributions to defined benefit plans, the availability of additional financing, the outcome of outstanding legal proceedings, the impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements and the estimated timing and amount related to the resolution of tax matters. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Important risks that may influence future results includes those risks described above. These risks are not all inclusive and given these and other possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  

 ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties. Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.   

  ITEM 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 Not applicable.   

 11   
  ITEM 2.    Properties