PART I   

  Item 1.    Business    

 Introduction   

 Goldman Sachs is a bank holding company and a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial paper business founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On May 7, 1999, we converted from a partnership to a corporation and completed an initial public offering of our common stock. On September 21, 2008, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) became a bank holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Our depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA), became a New York State-chartered bank on November 28, 2008.  

 Our activities are divided into three segments: (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities Services.  

 All references to 2008, 2007 and 2006 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006, respectively. When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to our Annual Report on Form 10-K are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008.  

 On December 15, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year-end from the last Friday of November to the last Friday of December. The change is effective for our 2009 fiscal year. Our 2009 fiscal year began December 27, 2008 and will end December 25, 2009, resulting in a one-month transition period that began November 29, 2008 and ended December 26, 2008. Information on this one-month transition period will be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 27, 2009.  

 Financial information concerning our business segments and geographic regions for each of 2008, 2007 and 2006 is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, and the supplemental financial information, which are in Part II, Items 7, 7A and 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our internet address is www.gs.com and the investor relations section of our web site is located at www.gs.com/shareholders. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web site, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director Independence Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior financial officer (as defined in the Code). In addition, our web site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the SEC’s Regulation G) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time.  

 Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street, 17th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 212-902-0300, e-mail: gs-investor-relations@gs.com.  

 1   
 Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   

 We have included or incorporated by reference in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time our management may make, statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal proceedings, as set forth under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements about our future status, activities or reporting under U.S. banking regulation, and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed below and under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 In the case of statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 2   
 Segment Operating Results

 (in millions)    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Operating expenses include net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $(4) million, $37 million and $45 million for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.    

 3   
 Where We Conduct Business   

 As of November 28, 2008, we operated offices in over 30 countries and 43% of our 30,067 employees were based outside the Americas (which includes the countries in North and South America). In 2008, we derived 30% of our net revenues outside of the Americas. See geographic information in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our clients are located worldwide, and we are an active participant in financial markets around the world. We have developed and continue to build strong investment banking relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to expand our presence throughout these markets to invest strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely with our private wealth and asset management clients in these regions. Our global reach is illustrated by the following:  

    •   we are a member of and an active participant in most of the world’s major stock, options and futures exchanges and marketplaces;   

    •   we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond markets around the world;   

    •   we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the world;   

    •   we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities exchanges worldwide; and   

    •   we have commercial banking or deposit-taking institutions organized or operating in the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Brazil, Switzerland, Germany, France, Russia and South Korea.    

 Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research division, which, as of November 2008, provided research coverage of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 45 national economies, and maintained a presence in locations around the world.  

 We continue to expand our geographic reach. For example, in recent years we have opened offices in Mumbai, Moscow, Sao Paulo, Dubai, Qatar, Riyadh and Tel Aviv, become licensed as a broker-dealer in Russia, India and China, opened banks in Brazil, Ireland and Russia and entered into the asset management business in South Korea and India.  

 4   
 Business Segments   

 The primary products and activities of our business segments are set forth in the following chart:  

  Business Segment/Component       Primary Products and Activities   

   Investment Banking:          

   Financial Advisory         • Mergers and acquisitions advisory services    

         • Financial restructuring advisory services    

   Underwriting         • Equity and debt underwriting    

   Trading and Principal Investments:          

   Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities         • Commodities and commodity derivatives, including power generation and related activities    

         • Credit products, including trading and investing in credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans, municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt, public and private equity securities and real estate    

         • Currencies and currency derivatives    

         • Interest rate products, including interest rate derivatives, global government securities and money market instruments, including matched book positions    

         • Mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments    

   Equities         • Equity securities and derivatives    

         • Securities, futures and options clearing services    

         • Market-making and specialist activities in equity securities and options    

         • Insurance activities    

   Principal Investments         • Principal investments in connection with merchant banking activities    

         • Investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited    

   Asset Management and Securities Services:          

   Asset Management         • Investment advisory services, financial planning and investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies), for institutional and individual investors (including high-net-worth clients, as well as retail clients through third-party channels)    

         • Management of merchant banking funds    

   Securities Services         • Prime brokerage    

         • Financing services    

         • Securities lending    

 5   
 Investment Banking  

 Investment Banking represented 23% of 2008 net revenues. We provide a broad range of investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to develop and maintain long-term relationships with these clients as their lead investment bank.  

 Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated fashion for the benefit of our clients.  

 Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment banking serving as “front of the house.” To accomplish this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and liability management activities. This coordination is intended to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset and liability exposures and their capital.  

 Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components: Financial Advisory and Underwriting.  

 Financial Advisory  

 Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and spin-offs. Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions for which we provide multiple services, including “one-stop” acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.  

 Underwriting  

 Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments, including common and preferred stock, convertible and exchangeable securities, investment-grade debt, high-yield debt, sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank loans, asset-backed securities and real estate-related securities, such as mortgage-related securities and the securities of real estate investment trusts.  

 Equity Underwriting. Equity underwriting has been a long-term core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.  

 Debt Underwriting. We engage in the underwriting and origination of various types of debt instruments, including investment-grade debt securities, high-yield debt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt securities, which may be issued by, among others, corporate, sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and originate structured securities, which include mortgage-related securities and other asset-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations.  

 6   
 Trading and Principal Investments  

 Trading and Principal Investments represented 41% of 2008 net revenues. Trading and Principal Investments facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in market-making and specialist activities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and other investing activities, we make principal investments directly and through funds that we raise and manage.  

 To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate client transactions distinguishes us from many of our competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.  

 Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities; Equities; and Principal Investments.  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities and Equities  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are large and diversified operations through which we engage in a variety of client-driven and proprietary trading and investing activities.  

 In our client-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to deliver high-quality service by offering broad market-making and market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by committing capital and taking risk, to facilitate client transactions and to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed income, currency, commodity and equity products and their derivatives is crucial to our client relationships and to support our underwriting business by providing secondary market liquidity.  

 We generate trading net revenues from our client-driven businesses in three ways:  

    •   First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.   

    •   Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where spreads and fees are generally larger.   

    •   Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address complex client needs.    

 Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and expertise.  

 In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify, analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our analytical models to analyze information and make informed trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.  

 7   
 FICC  

 We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products, mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five principal businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies; interest rate products, including money market instruments; and mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments.  

 Commodities. We enter into trades with our clients in, make markets in, and trade for our own account a wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products, metals, natural gas and electricity, and forest products. As part of our commodities business, we acquire and dispose of interests in, and engage in the development and operation of, electric power generation facilities and related activities.  

 Credit Products. We offer to and trade for our clients a broad array of credit and credit-linked products all over the world, including credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans (origination and trading), municipal securities, and emerging market and distressed debt. For example, we enter, as principal, into complex structured transactions designed to meet client needs.  

 In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be short-term in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions through investment vehicles sold to other investors. Underwriting fees from syndications of these commitments are recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment Banking segment. However, to the extent that we recognize losses on these commitments, such losses are recorded within our Trading and Principal Investments segment, net of any related underwriting fees. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our commitments.  

 Our credit products business includes making significant long-term and short-term investments for our own account (sometimes investing together with our merchant banking funds) in a broad array of asset classes (including distressed debt) globally. We opportunistically invest in debt and equity securities and secured loans, and in private equity, real estate and other assets.  

 Currencies. We act as a dealer in foreign exchange and trade for our clients and ourselves in most currencies on exchanges and in cash and derivative markets globally.  

 Interest Rate Products. We trade and make markets in a variety of interest rate products, including interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and government bonds, as well as money market instruments, such as commercial paper, treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid securities and instruments. This business includes our matched book, which consists of short-term collateralized financing transactions.  

 Mortgage Business. We make markets in and trade for our clients and ourselves commercial and residential mortgage-related securities and loan products (including agency prime and non-agency prime, Alt-A and subprime mortgages) and other asset-backed and derivative instruments. We acquire positions in these products for proprietary trading purposes as well as for securitization or syndication. We also originate and service commercial and residential mortgages.  

 8   
 Equities  

 We make markets in and trade equities and equity-related products, structure and enter into equity derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our Equities client franchise and clearing activities.  

 Equities includes two principal businesses: our client franchise business and principal strategies. We also engage in specialist and insurance activities.  

 Client Franchise Business. Our client franchise business includes primarily client-driven activities in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities markets. These activities also include clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as our options specialist and market-making businesses. Our client franchise business increasingly involves providing our clients with access to electronic “low-touch” equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the majority of our client trading activity in this business. However, a majority of our net revenues in this business continues to be derived from our traditional “high-touch” handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of trading activities to remain important components of our client franchise business.  

 We trade equity securities and equity-related products, including convertible securities, options, futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an agent, as a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a principal, we facilitate client transactions, often by committing capital and taking risk, to provide liquidity to clients with large blocks of stocks or options. For example, we are active in the execution of large block trades. We also execute transactions as agent and offer clients direct electronic access to trading markets.  

 In the options and futures markets, we structure, distribute and execute derivatives on market indices, industry groups, financial measures and individual company stocks to facilitate client transactions and our proprietary activities. We develop strategies and render advice with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation transactions. We also create specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or liquidate investment positions. We are one of the leading participants in the trading and development of equity derivative instruments. In options, we are a specialist and/or market maker on the International Securities Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, NYSE Alternext US and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  

 Principal Strategies. Our principal strategies business is a multi-strategy investment business that invests and trades our capital across global markets. Investment strategies include fundamental equities and relative value trading (which involves trading strategies designed to take advantage of perceived discrepancies in the relative value of financial instruments, including equity, equity-related and debt instruments), event-driven investments (which focus on event-oriented special situations such as corporate restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, mergers and acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events), convertible bond trading, various types of volatility trading and principal finance.  

 At the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008, we reassigned approximately one-half of the traders and other personnel and transferred approximately one-half of the firm’s assets comprising our principal strategies business to our asset management business in an effort to strengthen and diversify our asset management offerings. These assets are invested in an alternative investment fund managed by our asset management business.  

 9   
 Specialist Activities. Our specialist activities business consists of our stock and exchange-traded funds (ETF) specialist and market-making businesses. We engage in specialist and market-making activities on equities exchanges. In the United States, we are one of the leading designated market makers for stocks traded on the NYSE. For ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca.  

 Insurance Activities. Through our insurance subsidiaries, we engage in a range of insurance and reinsurance businesses, including buying, originating and/or reinsuring variable annuity and life insurance contracts, reinsuring property catastrophe and residential homeowner risks and providing power interruption coverage to power generating facilities.  

 Principal Investments  

 Principal Investments primarily represents net revenues from three primary sources: returns on corporate and real estate investments; overrides on corporate and real estate investments made by merchant banking funds that we manage; and our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC).  

 Returns on Corporate and Real Estate Investments. As of November 2008, the aggregate carrying value of our principal investments held directly or through our merchant banking funds, excluding our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, was $15.13 billion, comprised of corporate principal investments with an aggregate carrying value of $12.16 billion and real estate investments with an aggregate carrying value of $2.97 billion. In addition, as of November 2008, we had outstanding unfunded equity capital commitments of up to $13.47 billion, comprised of corporate principal investment commitments of $10.39 billion and real estate investment commitments of $3.08 billion.  

 Overrides. Consists of the increased share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the return on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues when all material contingencies have been resolved.  

 ICBC. Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was acquired on April 28, 2006. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares after October 20, 2009. As of November 2008, the fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was $5.50 billion. A portion of our interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. For further information regarding our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value — Cash Instruments” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 10   
 Asset Management and Securities Services  

 Asset Management and Securities Services represented 36% of 2008 net revenues. Our asset management business provides investment advisory and financial planning services and offers investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the form of management and incentive fees. Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees.  

 Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.  

 Asset Management  

 We offer a broad array of investment strategies, advice and planning. We provide asset management services and offer investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds) across all major asset classes: money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies). Through our subsidiary, The Ayco Company, L.P., we also provide fee-based financial counseling and financial education in the United States.  

 Assets under management (AUM) typically generate fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and by inflows and redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s return or when the return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our first quarter.  

 AUM includes our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Alternative investments include our merchant banking funds, which generate revenues as described below under “— Management of Merchant Banking Funds.” AUM includes assets in clients’ brokerage accounts to the extent that they generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather than commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.  

 AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions, mark-ups and spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM also does not include non-fee-paying assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our bank depository institution subsidiaries.  

 11   
 The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the following graph, as well as in the following tables, substantially all assets under management are valued as of November 30:  

 Assets Under Management

 (in billions)   

 The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:  

 Assets Under Management by Asset Class

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.    

 12   
 Clients. Our clients are institutions and individuals, including both high-net-worth and retail investors. We access institutional and high-net-worth clients through both direct and third-party channels and retail clients primarily through third-party channels. Our institutional clients include pension funds, governmental organizations, corporations, insurance companies, banks, foundations and endowments. In third-party distribution channels, we distribute our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts through brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. Our clients are located worldwide.  

 The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution channel and client category:  

 Assets Under Management by Distribution Channel

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Management of Merchant Banking Funds. Goldman Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private investment funds. As of November 2008, the amount of AUM in these funds (including both funded amounts and unfunded commitments on which we earn fees) was $93 billion.  

 Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to invest opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is diversified by industry, product type, geographic region, and transaction structure and type. Our corporate investment funds pursue, on a global basis, long-term investments in equity and debt securities in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real estate investment funds invest in real estate operating companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant banking funds include funds that invest in infrastructure and infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.  

 Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a percentage of a fund’s committed capital, invested capital, total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual management fees are included in our Asset Management net revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the funds’ unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the fund’s income and gains that is a percentage of the income and gains from the fund’s investments. The second and third of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.  

 13   
 Securities Services  

 Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth individuals worldwide.  

 Prime brokerage services. We offer prime brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime brokerage business provides clearing and custody in 53 markets globally and provides consolidated multi-currency accounting and reporting, fund administration and other ancillary services.  

 Financing services. A central element of our prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our clients for their securities trading activities through margin and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable collateral.  

 Securities lending services. Securities lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending of securities to cover clients’ and Goldman Sachs’ short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active participant in the broker-to-broker securities lending business and the third-party agency lending business. Net revenues in securities lending services are, as a general matter, weighted toward our second and third quarters each year due to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.   

 Global Investment Research   

 Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.  

 Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of November 2008 provided research coverage of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 45 national economies. This is accomplished by the following departments:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is provided below under “— Regulation — Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States” and “Legal Proceedings — Research Independence Matters” in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 14   
 Business Continuity and Information Security   

 Business continuity and information security are high priorities for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Because we are a bank holding company, our Business Continuity Program will be subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the program are crisis management, people recovery facilities, business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process improvement. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information resources.   

 Employees   

 Management believes that a major strength and principal reason for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.  

 Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a continuous process, in which training plays an important part. All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various locations throughout the world. Another important part of instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is integral to our team approach.  

 As of November 2008, we had 30,067 employees, excluding 4,671 employees of certain consolidated entities that are held for investment purposes only. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses.   

 Competition   

 The financial services industry — and all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that provide investment banking, securities and investment management services, as well as those entities that make investments in securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and other financial assets. These entities include brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price.  

 We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees.  

 15   
 Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. This trend accelerated over the course of the past year as the credit crisis caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. Many commercial banks and other broad-based financial services firms have had the ability for some time to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have had the ability to support investment banking and securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking and trading businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our businesses.  

 Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, pressure to retain market share by committing capital to businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities) from financial services firms in connection with investment banking and other assignments.  

 We provide these commitments primarily through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries, including our William Street entities and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. With respect to most of the William Street commitments, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) provides us with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which $375 million of protection has been provided as of November 2008. We also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the William Street entities and for a description of the credit loss protection provided by SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with investment banking and other assignments do not meet the criteria established for the William Street entities and do not benefit from the SMFG loss protection. These commitments are issued through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries or our other subsidiaries.  

 The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial institutions that are larger and better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history outside the United States.  

 We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. There has been considerable pressure in the pricing of block trades. Also, equity and debt underwriting discounts, as well as trading spreads, have been under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute trades electronically, through the internet and through alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other “low-touch,” low-commission trading will continue. We believe that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

 16   
 Regulation   

 Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the banking, securities, commodity futures and options and insurance industries, is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. See “Risk Factors — Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world” in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have on our businesses. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies around the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of clients participating in those markets, including depositors in U.S. depository institutions such as GS Bank USA. They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of Goldman Sachs’ shareholders or creditors.  

 On September 21, 2008, Group Inc. became a bank holding company under the BHC Act. As of that date, the Federal Reserve Board became the primary U.S. regulator of Group Inc., as a consolidated entity. Prior to September 21, 2008, Group Inc. was subject to regulation by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE) and was subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. On September 26, 2008, the SEC announced that it was ending the CSE program. Our principal U.S. broker-dealer, Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.) remains subject to regulation by the SEC.  

 Banking Regulation  

 Supervision and Regulation  

 As a bank holding company under the BHC Act, Group Inc. is now subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of “functional regulation” established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board supervises Group Inc., including all of its nonbank subsidiaries, as an “umbrella regulator” of the consolidated organization and generally defers to the primary U.S. regulators of Group Inc.’s U.S. depository institution subsidiary, as applicable, and to the other U.S. regulators of Group Inc.’s U.S. non-depository institution subsidiaries that regulate certain activities of those subsidiaries. Such “functionally regulated” non-depository institution subsidiaries include broker-dealers registered with the SEC, insurance companies regulated by state insurance authorities, investment advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities and entities regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to certain futures-related activities.  

 Activities  

 The BHC Act generally restricts us from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. However, the BHC Act also grants a new bank holding company, such as Group Inc., two years from the date the entity becomes a bank holding company to comply with the restrictions on its activities imposed by the BHC Act with respect to any activities that it was engaged in when it became a bank holding company. We expect that this “grandfather” right will allow us to continue to conduct our business substantially as we have in the past until at least September 22, 2010. In addition, under the BHC Act, we can apply to the Federal Reserve Board for up to three one-year extensions.  

 Under the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLB Act), an eligible bank holding company may elect to become a “financial holding company.” Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are permissible for bank holding companies as long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding companies. These activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in nonfinancial companies. In addition, the GLB Act also allows a company that was not a bank holding company and becomes a financial holding company after November 12, 1999 to continue to engage in certain commodities activities that are otherwise  

 17   
 impermissible for bank holding companies if the company was engaged in any of these activities in the United States as of September 30, 1997 and if the assets held pursuant to these activities do not equal 5% or more of the consolidated assets of the bank holding company.  

 We intend to apply to elect to become a financial holding company under the GLB Act as soon as practicable. Our ability to achieve and maintain financial holding company status is dependent on a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to qualify as “well capitalized” as described under “— Prompt Corrective Action” below. We do not believe that any activities that are material to our current or currently proposed business would be impermissible activities for us as a financial holding company.  

 As a bank holding company, Group Inc. is required to obtain prior Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or indirectly acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a bank holding company, we may generally engage in banking and other financial activities abroad, including investing in and owning non-U.S. banks, if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.  

 Capital Requirements  

 We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to similar capital guidelines. Under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices. Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution subsidiaries’ capital amounts, as well as GS Bank USA’s PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. We anticipate reporting capital ratios as follows:  

    •   Before we became a bank holding company, we were subject to capital guidelines by the SEC as a CSE that were generally consistent with those set out in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). We currently compute and report our firmwide capital ratios in accordance with the Basel II requirements as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of our capital. We expect to continue to report to investors for a period of time our Basel II capital ratios as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE.   

    •   The regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I), with Basel II to be phased in over time. We are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and compliance mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of the Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009.   

    •   In addition, we are currently working to implement the Basel II framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as opposed to as a CSE). U.S. banking regulators have incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements by requiring that internationally active banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to Basel II over the next several years.    

 Under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE, we evaluate our Tier 1 Capital and Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of Risk-Weighted Assets (RWAs). RWAs are calculated based on the level of market risk, credit risk and operational risk associated with our business activities, using methodologies generally consistent with those set out in Basel II. Our  

 18   
 Tier 1 Capital consists of common shareholders’ equity, qualifying preferred stock (including the cumulative preferred stock issued by Group Inc. to the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s (U.S. Treasury) TARP Capital Purchase Program and our junior subordinated debt issued to trusts, less deductions for goodwill, disallowed intangible assets and other items. Our Total Allowable Capital consists of our Tier 1 Capital and our qualifying subordinated debt, less certain deductions. Additional information on the calculation of our Tier 1 Capital, Total Allowable Capital and RWAs under the Basel II framework as it applied to us as a CSE is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital — Consolidated Capital Requirements,” and in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which are in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of November 2008, our Total Capital Ratio (Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 18.9% and our Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 15.6%, in each case calculated under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE.  

 As noted above, we are currently working to implement the Basel II framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as opposed to as a CSE). During a parallel period, we anticipate that Group Inc.’s capital calculations computed under both the Basel I rules and the Basel II rules will be reported to the Federal Reserve Board for examination and compliance for at least four consecutive quarterly periods. Once the parallel period and subsequent three-year transition period are successfully completed, Group Inc. will utilize the Basel II framework as its means of capital adequacy assessment, measurement and reporting and will discontinue use of Basel I. Internationally, the Basel II framework was implemented in several countries during the second half of 2007 and in 2008, while others will begin implementation in 2009. The Basel II rules therefore also apply to certain of our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  

 The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. We were not subject to these guidelines before becoming a bank holding company and, accordingly, we are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our methodology for calculating this ratio. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital (as applicable to us as a bank holding company) divided by adjusted average total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. As of November 2008, our estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.1%. This ratio represents a preliminary estimate and may be revised in subsequent filings as we continue to work with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize the methodology for the calculation.  

 GS&Co. will continue to calculate its regulatory capital requirements in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act, which are consistent with Basel II.  

 Payment of Dividends  

 Federal and state law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by our bank depository institution subsidiaries. The amount of dividends that may be paid by a state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as GS Bank USA or our national bank trust company subsidiary, is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of its chartering authority. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s “undivided profits.” New York law imposes similar limitations on New York State-  

 19   
 chartered banks. As a result of these restrictions, GS Bank USA was not able to declare dividends to Group Inc. without regulatory approval as of November 2008.  

 In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the banking regulators have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.  

 It is also the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that a bank holding company generally only pay dividends on common stock out of net income available to common shareholders over the past year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% level unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. A bank holding company also should not maintain a dividend level that places undue pressure on the capital of bank depository institution subsidiaries, or that may undermine the bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength for such bank depository institution subsidiaries. See “— U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program” below for a discussion of additional restrictions on Group Inc.’s ability to pay dividends. In addition, certain of Group Inc.’s nonbank subsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory limitations on dividends and distributions, including our broker-dealer and our insurance subsidiaries as described below.  

 Source of Strength  

 Under Federal Reserve Board policy, Group Inc. is expected to act as a source of strength to GS Bank USA and to commit capital and financial resources to support this subsidiary. The required support may be needed at times when, absent that Federal Reserve Board policy, we may not find ourselves able to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

 However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.  

 Cross-guarantee Provisions  

 Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be held liable to the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured depository institution controlled by that holding company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks that is in danger of default. Such a “cross-guarantee” claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against that depository institution. At this time, we control only one insured depository institution for this purpose, namely GS Bank USA. However, if, in the future, we were to control other insured depository institutions, such cross-guarantee would apply to all such insured depository institutions.  

 20   
 U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program  

 On October 28, 2008, Group Inc. issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase its common stock to the U.S. Treasury as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of this preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of this preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase our common stock dividend above the current quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share or repurchase our common stock or outstanding preferred stock except in limited circumstances. In addition, until the U.S. Treasury ceases to own any Group Inc. securities sold under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the compensation arrangements for our senior executive officers must comply in all respects with the U.S. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the rules and regulations thereunder. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital — Equity Capital Management” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program.  

 FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  

 Group Inc. and GS Bank USA have chosen to participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP), which applies to, among others, all U.S. depository institutions insured by the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding companies, unless they have opted out of the TLGP or the FDIC has terminated their participation. Under the TLGP, the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of Group Inc. and GS Bank USA, as well as noninterest-bearing transaction account deposits at GS Bank USA, and in return for these guarantees the FDIC is paid a fee based on the amount of the deposit or the amount and maturity of the debt. Under the debt guarantee component of the TLGP, the FDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest on an FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the uncured failure of the participating entity to make a timely payment of principal or interest in accordance with the terms of the instrument. Under the transaction account guarantee component of the TLGP, all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts maintained at GS Bank USA are insured in full by the FDIC until December 31, 2009, regardless of the standard maximum deposit insurance amount. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Funding Risk — Conservative Liability Structure” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our participation in the TLGP.  

 GS Bank USA  

 Our U.S. depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a New York State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding companies. GS Bank USA was formed in November 2008 through the merger of our existing Utah industrial bank (named GS Bank USA) into our New York limited purpose trust company, with the surviving company taking the name GS Bank USA. Concurrently with this merger, we contributed subsidiaries with an aggregate of $117.16 billion of assets into GS Bank USA (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, a number of our businesses are now conducted partially or entirely through GS Bank USA, including: bank loan trading and origination; interest rate, credit, currency and other derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial and residential mortgage origination, trading and servicing; structured finance; and agency lending, custody and hedge fund administration services. The businesses conducted through GS Bank USA are now subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the New York State Banking Department and the FDIC.  

 21   
 Deposit Insurance  

 GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. We are also participants in the TLGP as discussed above under “— FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.”  

 Prompt Corrective Action  

 The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be “well capitalized,” the highest category, if it has a total capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. In connection with the November 2008 asset transfer described below, GS Bank USA agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum capital ratios in excess of these “well capitalized” levels. Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 6%. We contributed subsidiaries with an aggregate of $117.16 billion in assets into GS Bank USA in November 2008 (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, we are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our methodology for the Basel I calculations. As of November 2008, under Basel I, GS Bank USA’s estimated Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.9% and estimated total capital ratio was 11.6%. In addition, GS Bank USA’s estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.1%. An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters.  

 FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also subject a depository institution to capital raising requirements. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.  

 The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company’s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company, the guarantee would take priority over the parent’s general unsecured creditors.  

 Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution  

 If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:  

    •   to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;    

 22   
    •   to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or   

    •   to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.    

 In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the depository institution.  

 Transactions with Affiliates  

 Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from GS Bank USA) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arms-length basis. These regulations generally do not apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries. In November 2008, Group Inc. transferred assets and operations to GS Bank USA as described above under “— GS Bank USA.” In connection with this transfer, Group Inc. entered into a guarantee agreement with GS Bank USA whereby Group Inc. agreed to (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain transferred assets (other than derivatives and mortgage servicing rights) or reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses relating to those assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA for credit-related losses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA; and (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights transferred to GS Bank USA. Group Inc. also agreed to pledge to GS Bank USA collateral with an aggregate value at any time not less than 5% of the face amount of committed but unfunded credit lines plus the original transfer value of the assets transferred to GS Bank USA, which amounted to a required collateral value of approximately $7.1 billion as of November 2008.  

 Trust Companies  

 Group Inc.’s two limited purpose trust company subsidiaries operate under state or federal law. They are not permitted to and do not accept deposits (other than as incidental to their trust activities) or make loans and, as a result, are not insured by the FDIC. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association that is limited to fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner.  

 U.S. Securities and Commodities Regulation  

 Goldman Sachs’ broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of clients’ purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.  

 In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. GS&Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an investment adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that apply to, and examine, broker-dealers such as GS&Co. In addition, state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or oversight  

 23   
 authority over GS&Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and two of its subsidiaries are registered U.S. broker-dealers and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives businesses.  

 The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the United States is subject to regulation under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and are subject to the CEA. The rules and regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also govern the commodity futures and commodity options businesses of these entities.  

 GS&Co. and GSEC are subject to Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require that a significant part of the registrants’ assets be kept in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. and GSEC have elected to compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted by Rule 15c3-1. As of November 2008, GS&Co. had regulatory net capital, as defined by Rule 15c3-1, of $10.92 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by $8.87 billion. As of November 2008, GSEC had regulatory net capital, as defined by Rule 15c3-1, of $1.38 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by $1.29 billion. In addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements, GS&Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. GS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 2008, GS&Co. had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our specialist businesses are subject to extensive regulation by a number of securities exchanges. As a Designated Market Maker on the NYSE and as a specialist on other exchanges, we are required to maintain orderly markets in the securities to which we are assigned. Under the NYSE’s new Designated Market Maker rules, this may require us to supply liquidity to these markets in certain circumstances.  

 J. Aron & Company is authorized by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell wholesale physical power at market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron & Company is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities, GS&Co. is also an “exempt holding company” under the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.  

 In addition, as a result of our power-related activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as discussed under “Risk Factors — Our power generation interests and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks associated with power generation activities” in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Other Regulation in the United States  

 Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they are licensed, and we are subject to oversight as an insurance holding company in states where our insurance subsidiaries are  

 24   
 domiciled. State insurance regulations limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to Group Inc. in certain circumstances, and could require regulatory approval for any change in “control” of Group Inc., which may include control of 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, a number of our other businesses, including our lending and mortgage businesses, require us to obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we conduct these businesses.  

 The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the implementation of various regulations applicable to all financial institutions, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain some similar provisions. The obligation of financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.  

 Regulation Outside the United States  

 Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the United Kingdom under the regulation of the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. As of November 2008, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.  

 Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our regulated Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. As of November 2008, this bank was in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a general guarantee of the obligations of this bank.  

 Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the European countries in which they operate, including, among others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France, Banca d’Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets Service in Russia and the Swiss Federal Banking Commission. Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of which they are members.  

 The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which implement EU directives requiring, among other things, compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting rules. These standards, requirements and rules are similarly implemented, under the same directives, throughout the EU.  

 Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. As of November 2008, GSJCL was in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.  

 25   
 Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service, the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC.  

 Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and regulatory authorities in other non-U.S. countries in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by Lloyd’s (which is, in turn, regulated by the FSA) and by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.  

 Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States  

 The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and other state regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.  

 The research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of regulatory scrutiny. The SEC and FINRA have rules governing research analysts, including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at member securities firms. Various non-U.S. jurisdictions have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements with respect to research and may impose additional regulations. In 2003, GS&Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into equity research analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. The global settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses, including restrictions on the interaction between research and investment banking areas.  

 In connection with the research settlement, we have also subscribed to a voluntary initiative imposing restrictions on the allocation of shares in initial public offerings to executives and directors of public companies. The FSA in the United Kingdom has imposed requirements on the conduct of the allocation process in equity and fixed income securities offerings (including initial public offerings and secondary distributions). The SEC, the FSA, FINRA and other U.S. or non-U.S. regulators may in the future adopt additional and more stringent rules with respect to offering procedures and the management of conflicts of interest, and we cannot fully predict the effect that any new requirements will have on our business.  

 Our investment management businesses are subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and our management of client funds.  

 As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based upon its underlying risk.  

 Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other jurisdictions and/or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage.  

 26   
 Item 1A. Risk Factors