PART II  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share, discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  

The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. However, none of the registrants makes any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants of Duke Energy other than itself.  

DUKE ENERGY  

Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Carolina Power & Light Company d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. (Progress Energy Carolinas), Florida Power Corporation d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. (Progress Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in Latin America through International Energy.  

When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its six separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.  

On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy merged with Progress Energy, with Duke Energy continuing as the surviving corporation, and Progress Energy becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida, Progress Energy’s regulated utility subsidiaries, are now indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy. Duke Energy’s consolidated financial statements include Progress Energy, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida activity from July 2, 2012, forward. 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW   

Merger with Progress Energy  

On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy completed the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement), among Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation engaged in the regulated utility business of generation, transmission and distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. As a result of the merger, Merger Sub was merged into Progress Energy and Progress Energy became a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. 

The merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy provides increased scale and diversity with potentially enhanced access to capital over the long term and a greater ability to undertake the significant construction programs necessary to respond to increasing environmental regulation, plant retirements and customer demand growth. Duke Energy’s business risk profile is expected to improve over time due to the increased proportion of the business that is regulated. Additionally, cost savings, efficiencies and other benefits are expected from the combined operations. 

Immediately preceding the merger, Duke Energy completed a one-for-three reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding shares of Duke Energy common stock. The shareholders of Duke Energy approved the reverse stock split at Duke Energy’s special meeting of shareholders held on August 23, 2011. All share and per share amounts presented herein reflect the impact of the one-for-three reverse stock split. 

Progress Energy’s shareholders received 0.87083 shares of Duke Energy common stock in exchange for each share of Progress Energy common stock outstanding as of July 2, 2012. Generally, all outstanding Progress Energy equity-based compensation awards were converted into Duke Energy equity-based compensation awards using the same ratio. The merger was structured as a tax-free exchange of shares. 

For additional information on the details of this transaction including regulatory conditions and accounting implications, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.” 

2012 Financial Results   

The following table summarizes adjusted earnings and net income attributable to Duke Energy for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37 

PART II  

Adjusted earnings increased from 2011 to 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of Progress Energy results beginning in July 2012, and the impact of the 2011 Duke Energy Carolinas rate cases. Adjusted earnings increased from 2010 to 2011 primarily due to earnings attributable to Duke Energy’s ongoing modernization program and increased results at International Energy net of less favorable weather and higher operating expenses.  

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes pretax impairment and other charges of $628 million related to the Edwardsport integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) project and costs to achieve the Progress Energy merger of $636 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes pretax impairment charges of $222 million related to the Edwardsport IGCC project and $79 million to write down the carrying value of excess emission allowances held by Commercial Power to fair value. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was impacted by goodwill and other impairment charges of $660 million, primarily related to the nonregulated generation operations in the Midwest and gains on the sale of assets of $248M related to the sale of Q-Comm and the sale of a 50 percent interest in DukeNet.  

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of financial results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

2012 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments   

In 2012, Duke Energy was focused on managing regulatory approvals related to the merger with Progress Energy, completing its remaining major capital projects and obtaining constructive regulatory outcomes.  

Regulatory Approvals Related to the Merger with Progress Energy. In June 2012, the FERC and NCUC conditionally approved Duke Energy’s merger with Progress Energy. On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy successfully closed the merger with Progress Energy. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets” for further discussion related to the merger with Progress Energy. 

Completion and Placing in Service of Major Capital Projects. In 2012, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G) made significant progress toward advancing its fleet modernization program. Duke Energy Carolinas has invested approximately $3.5 billion through 2012 in three key generation fleet modernization projects with approximately 2,065 megawatts (MW) of capacity. In 2012, Duke Energy Carolinas placed its 620 MW Dan River combined cycle natural gas-fired generation facility and its 825 MW coal-fired Cliffside Unit 6 in service, completing its portion of the fleet modernization program. 

 Progress Energy Carolinas has invested approximately $1.7 billion through 2012 in three key generation fleet modernization projects with approximately 2,140 megawatts (MW) of capacity. In 2012, Progress Energy Carolinas placed in service the second of these projects, the 920 MW Lee combined cycle natural gas-fired generation facility, and continued to construct the 625 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generation Sutton facility, which is 64% complete at December 31, 2012. The Sutton project is scheduled to be placed in service in 2013. 

Duke Energy Indiana has invested approximately $3.4 billion through 2012 in its generation fleet modernization project, the 618 MW Edwardsport IGCC plant, which is 99% complete at December 31, 2012. In 2012, Duke Energy Indiana experienced cost pressures and regulatory scrutiny related to the Edwardsport IGCC project. As a result, Duke Energy Indiana recorded additional pre-tax impairment and other charges of approximately $628 million. This project is scheduled to be placed in service during 2013. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” for further discussion of the Edwardsport IGCC project.  

In 2012, Commercial Power completed five new wind farms and three solar farms, totaling approximately 800 MW, of which 150 MW were contributed to a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation of America. 

Obtaining Constructive Regulatory Outcomes. In 2012, Duke Energy successfully filed three rate cases in North Carolina and Ohio, including Progress Energy Carolinas’ first request for a base rate increase in 25 years. 

In the fourth quarter of 2012, Duke Energy reached a settlement agreement with the NCUC, the North Carolina Public Staff and the North Carolina Department of Justice (NCDOJ) regarding the NCUC’s and NCDOJ’s investigations into the post-merger CEO change. The settlement agreements resolve all matters related to the NCUC and NCDOJ investigations. 

On December 27, 2012, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) approved a settlement agreement finalized in April 2012, between Duke Energy Indiana, the OUCC, the Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel-Indiana, on the cost increase for the construction of the project. The settlement agreement, as approved, caps costs to be reflected in customer rates at $2.595 billion, including estimated financing costs through June 30, 2012.  

2013 Objectives   

Duke Energy will focus on obtaining constructive regulatory outcomes related to its pending and planned rate cases, achieving intended savings and efficiencies from its merger with Progress Energy, successfully managing the Crystal River Unit 3 retirement and related regulatory proceedings, completing the remaining major capital projects in its fleet modernization program and optimizing nuclear fleet performance.  

Obtaining Constructive Regulatory Outcomes. The significant majority of Duke Energy’s future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from USFE&G, which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses. Duke Energy has several ongoing rate cases and other regulatory proceedings in North Carolina, Ohio and Indiana. Later in 2013, Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas will file additional rate cases in South Carolina. Duke Energy expects resolution of these cases in 2013 or early 2014. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Planning for and obtaining favorable outcomes from these regulatory proceedings are key factors in achieving Duke Energy’s long-term growth assumptions.  

Achieving Intended Merger Cost Savings and Efficiencies. Duke Energy is taking a disciplined and systematic approach to merger integration work. Duke Energy is on track to achieve intended savings and efficiencies. In addition, through the efficient joint dispatch of the Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas generation fleets, Duke Energy is ahead of schedule in achieving fuels savings for customers in the Carolinas, achieving $52 million in fuel costs during the first six months following the merger. These savings are passed to customers. 

Management of Crystal River Unit 3 Retirement. On February 5, 2013, following the completion of a comprehensive analysis, Duke Energy announced its intention to retire Crystal River Unit 3. Duke Energy concluded that it did not have a high degree of confidence that repair could be successfully completed and licensed within estimated costs and schedule, and that was in the best interests of Progress Energy Florida’s customers and joint owners and Duke Energy’s investors to retire the unit. Progress Energy Florida developed initial estimates of the cost to decommission the plant during its analysis of whether to repair or retire Crystal River Unit 3. With the final decision to retire, Progress Energy Florida is working to develop a comprehensive decommissioning plan, which will evaluate various decommissioning options and costs associated with each option. The plan will determine resource needs as well as the scope, schedule and other elements of decommissioning. Progress Energy Florida intends to use a safe  

38 

PART II  

storage (SAFSTOR) option for decommissioning. Generally, SAFSTOR involves placing the facility into a safe storage configuration, requiring limited staffing to monitor plant conditions, until the eventual dismantling and decontamination activities occur, usually in 40 to 60 years. This decommissioning approach is currently utilized at a number of retired domestic nuclear power plants and is one of three generally accepted approaches to decommissioning required by the NRC. Additional specifics about the decommissioning plan are being developed. Also on February 5, 2013, Progress Energy Florida announced it and NEIL had accepted the mediator’s proposal whereby NEIL will pay Progress Energy Florida an additional $530 million. Along with the $305 million which NEIL previously paid, Progress Energy Florida will receive a total of $835 million in insurance proceeds. Progress Energy Florida expects that the FPSC will review the prudence of the retirement decision in Phase 2 of the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination regulatory docket. Progress Energy Florida has also asked the FPSC to review the mediated resolution of insurance claims with NEIL as part of Phase 3 of this regulatory docket. Phase 2 and Phase 3 hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin on June 19, 2013. 

Completing Remaining Major Capital Projects. Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of $5.9 billion to $6.3 billion in 2013. Approximately $1.7 billion of these expenditures are related to expansion and growth projects, including but not limited to, the Edwardsport IGCC plant and the Sutton combined cycle facility. Following the completion of the Sutton and Edwardsport facilities in 2013, the major components of Duke Energy’s fleet modernization program will be complete. The fleet modernization program will permit Duke Energy to retire up to 6,800 MW of older, less-efficient coal-fired units by 2015, with approximately 3,800 MW retired by the end of 2013. 

Optimizing Nuclear Fleet Performance. In 2012, Duke Energy’s nuclear fleet achieved a capacity factor over 90 percent, excluding Crystal River Unit 3. Duke Energy will continue to leverage best practices across the nuclear fleet to maintain and improve the performance of the fleet. To meet this goal, targeted investments to increase overall fleet performance and to meet the NRC’s Fukushima-related requirements totaling $825 million are planned over the next three years.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business   

The historical and future trends of Duke Energy’s operating results have been and will be affected in varying degrees by a number of factors, including those discussed below. Duke Energy’s revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with weather conditions and behavior patterns, general business conditions and the cost of energy services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric service within their respective jurisdictions and affect Duke Energy’s ability to recover its costs from customers.  

Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns reduce overall electricity sales and have the potential to lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially if retail customers reduce consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy’s customers’ ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and leading to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of USFE&G’s business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses. Duke Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. For further information on key assumptions that impact Duke Energy’s goodwill impairment assessments, see “Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment Assessments” and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments.”  

Duke Energy’s goals for 2013 and beyond could also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. USFE&G has four outstanding rate cases and plans to initiate two additional rate cases in 2013. New legislation and changes to regulations are ongoing, including anticipated carbon legislation, and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory or political environment or the ultimate effect that any such future changes will have on its business.  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the U.S. expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

In this section, Duke Energy provides analysis and discussion of earnings and factors affecting earnings on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.  

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on the non-GAAP financial measure, Adjusted earnings and Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS), which is measured as income from continuing operations after deducting income attributable to noncontrolling interests, adjusted for the dollar and per share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from operating earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure for planning and forecasting and for reporting results to the Board of Directors, employees, shareholders, analysts and  

39 

PART II  

investors concerning Duke Energy’s financial performance. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for Adjusted earnings and Adjusted diluted EPS is Net Income and Diluted EPS attributable to Duke Energy common shareholders, which includes the dollar and per share impact of special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and discontinued operations.  

Overview  

The following table reconciles Adjusted earnings to Net income attributable to Duke Energy and Adjusted diluted EPS to Diluted EPS attributable to Duke Energy (amounts are net of tax):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The variance in adjusted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, was primarily due to:  

· The inclusion of Progress Energy results beginning in July 2012; and 

· Increased retail pricing and riders primarily resulting from the implementation of revised rates in North Carolina and South Carolina.  

Partially offset by  

· Unfavorable weather in 2012 compared to 2011;  

· Higher depreciation and amortization expense; 

· Lower nonregulated Midwest coal generation results; and  

· Incremental shares issued to complete the Progress Energy merger (impacts per share diluted amounts only).  

The variance in adjusted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily due to:  

· Increased earnings associated with major construction projects at USFE&G;  

· Effect of 2010 Duke Energy Foundation funding;  

· Increased results in Brazil due to higher average contract prices;  

· Increased earnings from National Methanol Company (NMC);  

· Lower corporate governance costs;  

· Increased results in Peru due to additional capacity revenues and an arbitration award; and  

· Increased results in Central America due to higher average prices and volumes.  

Partially offset by  

· Less favorable weather in 2011 compared to 2010 at USFE&G;  

· Increased operation and maintenance costs at USFE&G; and  

· Lower volumes as a result of customer switching in Ohio, net of retention by Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail) at Commercial Power.  

Segment Results  

In 2012, management began evaluating segment performance based on segment income. Segment income is defined as income from continuing operations net of income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Segment income, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with management’s use of the new reporting measure, certain governance costs that were previously unallocated have now been allocated to each of the segments. In addition, direct interest expense and income taxes are included in segment income. Prior year financial information has been recast to conform to the current year presentation. None of these changes impacts the reportable operating segments or the Duke Energy Registrants’ previously reported consolidated revenues, net income or EPS.  

Management also uses adjusted segment income as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. Adjusted segment income is a Non-GAAP financial measure, as it is based upon segment income adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impact of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment income provides useful information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of a segment’s performance across periods.  

The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment income is reported segment income, which represents segment income from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impact of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. 

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.  

Duke Energy’s segment income and adjusted segment income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company because other entities may not calculate segment income or adjusted segment income in the same manner. The following tables reconcile adjusted segment income to segment income, and detailed discussions follow. 

40 

PART II  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The remaining information presented through this discussion of results of operations is presented on a GAAP basis. 

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas   

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas includes the regulated operations of Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

41 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2012 as Compared to December 31, 2011  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $4,918 million increase in operating revenues due to the inclusion of Progress Energy operating revenues beginning in July 2012, 

· A $352 million net increase in retail pricing and rate riders primarily due to revised retail rates resulting from the 2011 North Carolina and South Carolina rate cases implemented in the first quarter of 2012, and revenues recognized for energy efficiency programs, and 

· A $293 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher revenues in Ohio for purchases of power as a result of the new Ohio ESP, higher fuel rates for electric retail customers in all jurisdictions, and higher revenues for purchases of power in Indiana and the Carolinas, partially offset by decreased demand from electric retail customers in 2012 mainly due to unfavorable weather conditions, and lower demand and fuel rates in Ohio and Kentucky from natural gas retail customers . Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers. 

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

· A $155 million decrease in electric and gas sales (net of fuel) to retail customers due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2012 compared to 2011. For the Carolinas, weather statistics for cooling degree days in 2012 were less favorable compared to 2011, while cooling degree days in the Ohio and Indiana were favorable in 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. For the Carolinas, Ohio and Indiana, weather statistics for heating degree days in 2012 were unfavorable compared to 2011. 

Operating expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

· A $3,845 million increase in operating expenses due to the inclusion of Progress Energy operating expenses beginning in July 2012, 

· A $378 million increase due to an additional impairment and other charges related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information, 

· A $277 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily related to higher purchases of power in Ohio as a result of the new Ohio ESP, higher volumes of natural gas used in electric generation, higher coal prices, higher purchased power costs in Indiana and the Carolinas, partially offset by lower volume of coal used in electric generation resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and lower coal-fired generation due to low natural gas prices, lower prices for natural gas used in electric generation, and lower gas volumes and prices to full-service retail gas customers, and 

· A $105 million increase in depreciation and amortization primarily due to increases in depreciation as a result of additional plant in service and amortization of regulatory assets.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

· A $99 million decrease in operating and maintenance expense primarily due to the establishment of regulatory assets in the first quarter of 2012, pursuant to regulatory orders, for future recovery of certain employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and other costs, and lower storm costs, partially offset by increased costs associated with the energy efficiency programs.  

Other income and expense, net. The variance was driven primarily by the inclusion of Progress Energy other income and expenses beginning in July 2012.   

Interest expense. The variance was primarily driven by the inclusion of Progress Energy interest expense beginning in July 2012.  

Income tax expense. The variance is primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 35.0% and 36.3%, respectively.   

42 

PART II  

Segment income.  The variance resulted primarily from the inclusion of Progress Energy results beginning in July 2012, higher net retail pricing and rate riders and decreased operating and maintenance expenses. These positive impacts were partially offset by the additional impairment and other charges related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant, unfavorable weather, and increased depreciation and amortization.  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $230 million increase in rate riders and retail rates primarily due to the 2011 implementation of the North Carolina construction work in progress (CWIP) rider, the save-a-watt (SAW) and demand side management programs, and the rider for the Edwardsport IGCC plant,  

· A $22 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher fuel rates for electric retail customers in all jurisdictions, and higher purchased power costs in Indiana, partially offset by decreased demand from electric retail customers in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 mainly due to less favorable weather conditions, lower demand and fuel rates in Ohio and Kentucky from natural gas retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers, and  

· An $18 million net increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to additional volumes and charges for capacity for customers served under long-term contracts.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

· A $244 million decrease in GWh and thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to less favorable weather conditions in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. For the Carolinas, Ohio and Indiana, weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2011 were unfavorable compared to 2010. The year 2010 had the most cooling degree days on record and December 2010 tied with December 1963 for the coldest December on record in the Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area (dating back to 1961).  

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $204 million increase due to impairment charges, which primarily relate to an additional impairment charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information, and 

· A $110 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher non-outage costs at nuclear and fossil generation stations, higher storm costs, increased scheduled outage costs at nuclear generation stations, and increased costs related to the implementation of the SAW program, partially offset by a 2010 litigation settlement. 

Income tax expense. The income tax variance increase is primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rate for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 36.3%. 

Segment income. As discussed above, the variance resulted primarily from less favorable weather, impairment charges, higher operating and maintenance expenses, and higher income tax expense. These negative impacts were partially offset by overall net higher retail rates and rate riders and higher wholesale power revenues. 

Matters Impacting Future USFE&G Results  

On December 27, 2012, the IURC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Indiana and certain intervenors to cap the construction costs recoverable in retail rates. The Edwardsport Generating Station (Edwardsport IGCC) plant is scheduled to begin commercial operation in mid-2013. USFE&G’s earnings could be adversely impacted by additional delays in the commencement of operations which may result in increased costs.  

USFE&G currently has pending rate cases in North Carolina and Ohio. USFE&G also plans to file rate cases in South Carolina before the end of 2013. These rate cases are needed to recover the costs of plant modernization and other capital investments in generation, transmission, and distribution systems, as well as increased expenditures for nuclear plants and personnel, recovery of costs associated with MGP sites, vegetation management and other operating costs. USFE&G’s earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by the NCUC, PSCSC or PUCO. 

In accordance with the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, with consumer representatives and approved by the FPSC, Progress Energy Florida retains the sole discretion and flexibility to retire Crystal River Unit 3. As a result of the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3, under the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, Progress Energy Florida is allowed to recover all remaining Crystal River Unit 3 investments and to earn a return on the Crystal River Unit 3 investments set at its current authorized overall cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a return on equity set at 70 percent of the current FPSC authorized return on equity, no earlier than the first billing cycle of January 2017. Progress Energy Florida expects that the FPSC will review the prudence of the retirement decision in Phase 2 of the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination regulatory docket. Progress Energy Florida has also asked the FPSC to review the mediated resolution of insurance claims with NEIL as part of Phase 3 of this regulatory docket. Phase 2 and Phase 3 hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin on June 19, 2013. USFE&G’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if the FPSC issues an unfavorable ruling. 

The ability to integrate Progress Energy businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies expected from the merger with Progress Energy could be different from what USFE&G expects and may have a significant impact on USFE&G’s results of operations. 

Commercial Power   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

43 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2012 as Compared to December 31, 2011  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $285 million decrease in electric revenues from the coal-fired generation assets driven primarily by the expiration of the 2009-2011 ESP which dedicated Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation to Duke Energy Ohio’s retail customers, net of stability charge revenues, partially offset by the coal-fired generation assets participating in the PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) wholesale energy market in 2012, 

· A $116 million decrease in electric revenues from Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail) resulting from lower volumes and unfavorable pricing, 

· A $39 million decrease in electric revenues from the gas-fired generation assets driven primarily by lower power prices, partially offset by increased volumes, 

· A $27 million decrease in electric revenues from Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS), excluding renewables, due primarily to the termination of certain operations at the end of the first quarter of 2011 and a reduction of coal sales volumes as a result of lower natural gas prices, 

· An $18 million decrease in PJM capacity revenues related to lower average cleared capacity auction pricing in 2012 compared to 2011 for the gas-fired generation assets, net of an increase associated with the move of the coal-fired generation assets from Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) to PJM in 2012, and 

· An $8 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $6 million in 2012 compared to gains of $2 million in 2011. 

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

· A $64 million increase from participation in competitive retail load auctions, and 

· A $17 million increase in electric revenues from higher production in the renewables portfolio. 

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $140 million decrease in operating and maintenance expenses resulting primarily from the prior year recognition of MISO exit fees; lower transmission costs, prior year station outages, and 2011 regulatory asset amortization expenses, 

· An $88 million decrease primarily from the 2011 impairment of excess emission allowances as a result of the EPA’s issuance of the CSAPR, 

· An $85 million decrease in fuel expenses from the gas-fired generation assets driven by lower natural gas costs, partially offset by higher volumes, 

· A $19 million decrease in DEGS, excluding renewables, fuel used due primarily to the termination of certain operations at the end of the first quarter of 2011 and from lower natural gas prices, 

· A $15 million decrease due to the receipt of funds in 2012 related to a previously written off receivable associated with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, 

· A $15 million decrease in purchased power to serve Duke Energy Retail customers, and 

· A $13 million decrease in fuel used for the coal-fired generation assets driven primarily by lower generation volumes. 

Partially offsetting these decreases was: 

· A $54 million increase in purchase power to serve competitive retail load auctions. 

Other income and expense, net. The variance is primarily due to the sale of certain DEGS operations and higher equity earnings from the renewables portfolio. 

Interest expense. The variance is primarily due to higher capitalized interest on wind construction projects. 

Income tax (benefit) expense. The variance in tax benefit is primarily due to a decrease in pretax income. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was (9.5) % and (1.4) %, respectively.  

Segment income.  The variance is primarily attributable to lower revenues driven by the net impact of the expiration of the 2009-2011 ESP and the impact of competitive market dispatch for the Duke Energy Ohio coal-fired assets, lower Duke Energy Retail earnings, and lower PJM capacity  

44 

PART II  

revenues. These negative impacts were partially offset by lower operating expenses, lower impairment charges, and increased margins from the gas-fired generation assets. 

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

· A $240 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes, net of lower pricing and lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions in 2011, and  

· A $53 million increase in renewable generation revenues due to additional renewable generation facilities placed in service after 2010 and a full year of operations for renewable generation facilities placed in service throughout 2010.  

· Partially offsetting these increases were:  

· A $178 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels and unfavorable weather net of higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2011, and  

· A $66 million decrease in DEGS revenues, excluding renewables, due primarily to a contract termination and plant maintenance.  

Operating expenses. The variance was primarily driven by:  

· A $584 million decrease in impairment charges primarily related to a $660 million charge related to goodwill and nonregulated coal-fired generation asset impairments in the Midwest in 2010, as compared to a $79 million impairment in 2011 to write down the carrying value of excess emission allowances held to fair value as a result of the EPA’s issuance of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and a $9 million impairment of the Vermillion generation station in 2011. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information, and  

· A $65 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower generation volumes net of higher purchased power volumes in 2011 as compared to 2010.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

· A $156 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes, partially offset by favorable hedge realizations in 2011 as compared to 2010,  

· A $46 million increase in operating expenses resulting primarily from the recognition of MISO exit fees, higher maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs, partially offset by lower governance costs in 2011 compared to 2010, and  

· A $30 million increase in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2011 compared to gains of $27 million in 2010.  

Other income and expense, net. The variance is primarily due to distributions from South Houston Green Power received in 2010 which did not recur in 2011.  

Interest expense. The variance is primarily due to lower capitalized interest on wind construction projects. 

Income tax (benefit) expense. The variance in pretax income was primarily due to a non-deductible goodwill impairment in 2010. The effective tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were (1.4%) and (7.2%), respectively. 

Segment income. The variance is primarily attributable to lower goodwill, generation and other asset impairment charges, higher wholesale margins due to increased generation volumes, and an increase in renewables generation revenues. These factors were partially offset by lower retail margins driven by customer switching and unfavorable weather, higher operating expenses resulting from the recognition of MISO exit fees and increased maintenance expenses, and net mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying commodity hedge contracts in 2011 compared to gains in 2010.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Changes or variability in assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the renewables reporting unit for goodwill testing purposes including but not limited to, legislative actions related to tax credit extensions, long-term growth rates and discount rates, could significantly impact the estimated fair value of the renewables reporting unit. In the event of a significant decline in the estimated fair value of the renewables reporting unit, goodwill and other asset impairment charges could be recorded. The carrying value of goodwill, and intangible assets associated with proposed renewable projects within Commercial Power’s renewables reporting unit was approximately $108 million at December 31, 2012. 

The current low energy price projections, as well as recently issued and proposed environmental regulations pertaining to coal and coal-fired generating facilities, could impact future cash flows and market valuations of Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation assets which could lead to impairment charges. 

International Energy   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

45 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2012 as Compared to December 31, 2011  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

• A $53 million increase in Central America as a result of higher volumes due to a full year of commercial operations of the Las Palmas II plant and favorable hydrology, 

• A $24 million increase in Peru due to higher average prices, and 

• A $10 million increase in Argentina due to higher volumes as a result of favorable hydrology, partially offset by unfavorable exchange rates. 

Partially offsetting this increase was: 

· A $7 million decrease in Brazil as a result of unfavorable exchange rates partially offset by higher average prices and volumes. 

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:  

• A $76 million increase in Central America due to higher fuel costs and consumption as a result of increased dispatch, 

• An $8 million increase in general and administrative due to higher development costs, labor, and executive benefits, and  

• A $7 million increase in Argentina as a result of higher transmission, water royalty and purchased power costs. 

Other income and expense, net. The variance was primarily driven by the absence of a $20 million arbitration award in Peru. 

Interest expense. The variance was primarily due to lower capitalized interest in Central America and Brazil, as well as higher inflation partially offset by favorable exchange rates in Brazil. 

Income tax expense. The variance in tax expense is primarily due to a decrease in pretax income. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 24.8% and 28.9%, respectively.  

Segment income. The variance was primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates in Brazil, the prior year Peru arbitration award, and lower margins in Central America, partially offset by higher average prices and volumes in Brazil and higher average prices in Peru. 

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:  

• A $111 million increase in Central America as a result of higher average prices and favorable hydrology, 

• A $95 million increase in Brazil due to favorable exchange rates, and higher average contract prices and volumes, and 

• An $80 million increase in Peru due to higher average prices and volumes, and hydrocarbon prices. 

Partially offsetting this increase was:  

• A $25 million decrease in Ecuador as a result of lower dispatch due to new hydro competitor commencing operations and energy imports from Colombia.  

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:  

• A $77 million increase in Central America due to higher fuel costs and consumption as a result of increased dispatch, 

• A $56 million increase in Peru as a result of higher fuel costs and consumption as a result of increased dispatch, and higher purchased power and hydrocarbon royalty costs, and 

• A $25 million increase in Brazil as a result of unfavorable exchange rates, higher purchased power and a provision for a revenue tax audit.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

• A $27 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel consumption as a result of lower dispatch, and lower maintenance costs.  

Other income and expense, net. The variance was primarily driven by a $44 million increase in equity earnings from NMC due to higher average prices partially offset by higher butane costs, and a $20 million arbitration award in Peru. 

Interest expense. The variance was primarily a result of inflation impact in Brazil and lower interest expense in Central America due to prepayment of debt. 

Income tax expense. The variance is primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 28.9% and 31.1%, respectively.  

Segment income. As discussed above, the variance was primarily due to favorable contract prices and exchange rates in Brazil, arbitration award and higher margins in Peru, favorable hydrology in Central America, and higher equity earnings at NMC. 

Other   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

46 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2012 as Compared to December 31, 2011  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by higher premiums earned at Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison) as a result of the addition of Progress Energy and mark-to-market activity at Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM). 

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by charges related to the Progress Energy merger, increased severance costs and higher current year donations. These negative impacts were partially offset by higher JV costs related to DETM in the prior year. 

Other income and expense, net. The variance was driven primarily by current year impairments and prior year gains on sales of investments, higher interest income recorded in 2011 following the resolution of certain income tax matters related to prior years and reversal of reserves related to certain guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent in 2011. These negative impacts were partially offset by higher returns on investments that support benefit obligations in 2012 compared to 2011. 

Interest expense. The variance was due primarily to higher debt balances as a result of debt issuances and the inclusion of Progress Energy interest expense beginning in July 2012. 

Income tax benefit. The variance is primarily due to an increase in pretax loss. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 41.1% and 56.0%, respectively. 

Net expense. The variance was due primarily to charges related to the Progress Energy merger, increased severance costs, and higher interest expense. These negative impacts were partially offset by higher income tax benefit due to increased net expense and higher returns on investments that support benefit obligations in 2012 compared to 2011. 

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating revenues. The variance was driven primarily by the deconsolidation of DukeNet in December 2010 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in DukeNet as an equity method investment.  

Operating expenses. The variance was driven primarily by $172 million of 2010 employee severance costs related to the voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, prior year donations of $56 million to the Duke Energy Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions, a decrease as a result of the DukeNet deconsolidation in December 2010 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in DukeNet as an equity method investment; partially offset by higher costs related to the proposed merger with Progress Energy.  

 (Losses) gains on sales of other assets and other, net. The variance was primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet in the prior year.  

Other income and expense, net. The variance was due primarily to the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm in the prior year of $109 million; partially offset by prior year impairments and 2011 gains on sales of investments.  

Interest expense. The variance was due primarily to higher debt balances as a result of debt issuances. 

Income tax benefit. The variance is primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax income. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 56.0% and 55.4%, respectively. 

Net expense. The variance was driven primarily by $172 million of 2010 employee severance costs related to the voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, prior year donations of $56 million to the Duke Energy Foundation, a decrease as a result of the DukeNet deconsolidation in December 2010 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in DukeNet as an equity method investment, and higher interest expense due to increased debt issuances in the current year. These negative impacts were partially offset by prior year impairments and 2011 gains on sales of investments and higher income tax benefit due to increased net expense. 

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Duke Energy previously held an effective 50% interest in Crescent, which was a real estate joint venture formed by Duke Energy in 2006 that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 2009. On June 9, 2010, Crescent restructured and emerged from bankruptcy and Duke Energy forfeited its entire 50% ownership interest to Crescent debt holders. This forfeiture caused Duke Energy to recognize a loss, for tax purposes, on its interest in the second quarter of 2010. Although Crescent has reorganized and emerged from bankruptcy with creditors owning all Crescent interest, there remains uncertainty as to the tax treatment associated with the restructuring. Based on this uncertainty, it is possible that Duke Energy could incur a future tax liability related to the tax losses associated with its partnership interest in Crescent and the resolution of issues associated with Crescent’s emergence from bankruptcy.  

47 

PART II  

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in Duke Energy Carolinas’ net income for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to December 31, 2011, was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating revenues. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $323 million increase in net retail pricing and rate riders primarily due to revised retail base rates implemented in North Carolina and South Carolina in the first quarter of 2012, and revenues recognized for the energy efficiency programs, and 

· A $40 million increase in weather adjusted sales volumes to customers primarily due to higher weather-normal sales to retail customers and an extra day of revenues due to 2012 being a leap year. 

 Partially offsetting these increases were:  

· A $141 million (net of fuel) decrease in GWh sales to retail customers due to overall unfavorable weather conditions. The weather statistics for heating degree days in 2012 were unfavorable compared to the same period in 2011, while weather statistics for cooling degree days were less favorable in 2012 compared to the same period in 2011, and 

· An $88 million decrease in fuel revenues driven primarily by decreased demand from retail customers mainly due to overall unfavorable weather conditions, partially offset by higher fuel rates in both North Carolina and South Carolina. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers. 

Operating expenses. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $107 million increase in depreciation and amortization primarily due to increases in depreciation as a result of additional plant in service and amortization of certain regulatory assets,  

48 

PART II  

· A $75 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to Duke Energy Carolinas’ portion of the costs associated with the Progress Energy merger including donations, severance, and certain other costs, higher non-outage and outage costs at generation plants, increased corporate costs, and required donations resulting from the most recent North Carolina and South Carolina rate cases, partially offset by the establishment of regulatory assets in the first quarter of 2012, pursuant to regulatory orders for future recovery of certain employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and other costs, decreased storm costs, and lower governance costs, and 

· A $25 million increase in general taxes primarily due to higher revenue related taxes in 2012, higher North Carolina property tax expense, capitalization of North Carolina property taxes in the prior year related to future generation plants, a favorable prior year resolution of a property tax issue related to pollution control equipment exemptions and a sales and use tax refund in 2011 with no comparable refund in 2012, and 

· A $19 million increase in impairment charges primarily related to the merger with Progress Energy. These charges relate to planned transmission project costs for which no recovery is expected, and certain costs associated with mitigation sales pursuant to merger settlement agreements with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). 

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

· An $80 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily related to lower volume of coal used in electric generation due to lower demand from retail customers based on overall unfavorable weather conditions and lower coal-fired generation due to low natural gas prices. 

Interest expense. The variance is primarily due to lower debt return on deferred projects and a lower debt component of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC). 

Income tax expense. The variance in income tax expense is primarily due to prior year state audit settlements. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 34.3% and 36.1%, respectively.  

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Carolinas Results  

Duke Energy Carolinas filed a rate case on February 4, 2013 in North Carolina and plans to file a rate case in South Carolina in early 2013. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Duke Energy Carolinas’ earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by either of the state regulatory commissions.  

The ability to integrate Progress Energy businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies expected from the merger with Progress Energy could be different from what Duke Energy Carolinas expects and may have a significant impact on Duke Energy Carolinas’ results of operations. 

49 

PART II  

PROGRESS ENERGY  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in Progress Energy’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the following factors: 

Operating revenues. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $319 million increase in fuel and capacity revenues driven primarily by the 2011 charge of $288 million for the amount to be refunded through the fuel clause in accordance with the 2012 settlement agreement at Progress Energy Florida, and 

· A $154 million increase in sales to wholesale customers primarily due to Progress Energy Carolinas’ joint dispatch agreement (JDA) revenues from Duke Energy Carolinas, the impact of an amended capacity contract with a major wholesale customer at Progress Energy Carolinas that began in May 2012 and a new wholesale contract at Progress Energy Carolinas that began in July 2012.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

· An $86 million decrease in sales to retail customers primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. The weather statistics for heating degree days in 2012 were unfavorable compared to the same period in 2011, while weather statistics for cooling degree days were less favorable in 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. 

Operating expenses. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $385 million increase in Operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to higher costs to achieve the merger with Duke Energy and Progress Energy Carolinas’ higher nuclear plant outage costs, and  

· A $261 million increase in Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to the impact of establishing a $100 million regulatory liability for replacement power in accordance with Progress Energy Florida’s 2012 FPSC settlement agreement (See Note 4), the impact of higher rates at Progress Energy Carolinas and a change in generation mix at Progress Energy Carolinas, which was driven by nuclear refueling outages in 2012. 

· A $197 million increase in Impairment charges primarily due to the impact of the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3 (See Note 4) and the probable disallowance of transmission project costs at Progress Energy Carolinas, which are a portion of the FERC Mitigation charges (See Note 2) included in the costs to achieve the merger with Duke Energy.  

Other income and expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to the $59 million prior-year pretax unrealized loss to record the change in fair value of the contingent value obligations (CVOs). The change in fair value was determined by an October 3, 2011 settlement agreement with a CVO holder to purchase all of their CVOs at a negotiated purchase price. The settlement agreement also led to a subsequent tender offer to remaining CVO holders at the same purchase price. 

Income tax expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax income. The effective tax rates for 2012 and 2011 were 32.7% and 35.6%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease in pre-tax income as well as the decrease for the change of fair value of outstanding CVOs.  

Discontinued operations, net of tax. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the US Global settlement in 2012 (See Note 5).  

Matters Impacting Future Progress Energy Results  

50 

PART II  

In accordance with the terms of a 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, with consumer representatives and approved by the FPSC, Progress Energy Florida retains the sole discretion and flexibility to retire Crystal River Unit 3. As a result of the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3, under the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, Progress Energy Florida is allowed to recover all remaining Crystal River Unit 3 investments and to earn a return on the Crystal River Unit 3 investments set at its current authorized overall cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a return on equity set at 70 percent of the current FPSC authorized return on equity, no earlier than the first billing cycle of January 2017. Progress Energy Florida expects that the FPSC will review the prudence of the retirement decision in Phase 2 of the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination regulatory docket. Progress Energy Florida has also asked the FPSC to review the mediated resolution of insurance claims with NEIL as part of Phase 3 of this regulatory docket. Phase 2 and Phase 3 hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin on June 19, 2013. Progress Energy’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if the FPSC issues an unfavorable ruling. 

Progress Energy Carolinas filed a rate case in North Carolina in October 2012, and plans to file a rate case in South Carolina before the end of 2013. These rate cases are needed to recover the cost of plant modernization and other capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems, as well as increased expenditures for nuclear plants and personnel, vegetation management and other operating costs. Progress Energy’s earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by the NCUC or PSCSC. 

The ability to integrate with Duke Energy businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies expected from the merger with Duke Energy could be different from what Progress Energy expects and may have a significant impact on Progress Energy’s results of operations. 

51 

PART II  

PROGRESS ENERGY CAROLINAS  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in Progress Energy Carolinas’ net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $139 million increase in sales to wholesale customers primarily due to JDA revenues from Duke Energy Carolinas, the impact of an amended capacity contract with a major wholesale customer that began in May 2012 and a new wholesale contract that began in July 2012, 

· A $53 million increase in fuel revenues driven primarily by Interim FERC Mitigation wholesale fuel revenue and higher fuel rates, and 

· A $19 million increase in clause-recoverable regulatory revenues primarily due to increased spending on new and existing DSM programs. 

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

·  A $67 million decrease in sales to retail customers primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. The number of heating degree days for the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 was 19% below normal compared to 9% below normal for the same period in 2011. In addition, cooling degree days for the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 were 3% above normal compared to 19% above normal in the same period in 2011.  

Operating Expenses. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $303 million increase in Operation and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher nuclear plant outage costs, higher costs to achieve the merger with Duke Energy and the prior year non-capital portion of a favorable judgment from spent fuel litigation, partially offset by lower storm costs. The higher nuclear plant outage costs are primarily due to three nuclear refueling outages in 2012 compared to one outage in 2011, 

52 

PART II  

· A $140 million increase in Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to the impact of higher rates; higher weather-adjusted volumes and increased purchased power, which was driven by favorable gas prices and nuclear plant outages; and generation mix, which was driven by nuclear plant outages, and 

· A $51 million increase in Impairment charges primarily due to the disallowance of transmission project costs, which are a portion of the FERC Mitigation charges included in the costs to achieve the merger with Duke Energy. 

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to higher interest expense on long-term debt due to higher average debt outstanding and the prior-year settlement of 2004 and 2005 income tax audits. 

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax net income. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 28.7% and 33.2%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease in pretax income.  

Matters Impacting Future Progress Energy Carolinas Results  

Progress Energy Carolinas filed a rate case in North Carolina in October 2012, and plans to file a rate case in South Carolina before the end of 2013. These rate cases are needed to recover the cost of plant modernization and other capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems, as well as increased expenditures for nuclear plants and personnel, vegetation management and other operating costs. Progress Energy Carolinas’ earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by the NCUC or PSCSC.  

The ability to integrate with Duke Energy businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies expected from the merger with Duke Energy could be different from what Progress Energy Carolinas expects and may have a significant impact on Progress Energy Carolinas’ results of operations. 

53 

PART II  

PROGRESS ENERGY FLORIDA  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy Florida is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in Progress Energy Florida’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $266 million increase in fuel and capacity revenues driven primarily by the 2011 charge of $288 million for the amount to be refunded through the fuel clause in accordance with the 2012 FPSC settlement agreement and the impact of higher residential fuel rates, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions that impacted wholesale and retail fuel revenues. Also, Progress Energy Florida had lower capacity revenues resulting from a lower capacity rate and the lower sales volume, 

· A $28 million increase in other operating revenues primarily due to higher OATT rates, and 

· A $15 million increase in sales to wholesale customers primarily due to a new contract with a major customer. 

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

·  A $19 million decrease in sales to retail customers due to unfavorable weather conditions. The number of heating degree days for the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 was 22% below normal compared to 12% below normal in the same period in 2011. In addition, cooling degree days for the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 were 4% above normal compared to 5% above normal in the same period in 2011.  

Operating Expenses. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $146 million increase in Impairment charges due to the impact of the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3 (See Note 4), 

54 

PART II  

· A $121 million increase in Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to the impact of establishing a regulatory liability for replacement power in accordance with the 2012 FPSC settlement agreement (See Note 4), and an increase in deferred fuel expense related to higher under-recovered fuel costs in 2011 as a result of higher system requirements driven by favorable weather in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by lower natural gas prices and lower system requirements as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the current year and a lower Crystal River Unit 3 indemnification charge for the estimated joint owner replacement power costs, 

· An $86 million increase in Operation and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher costs to achieve the merger with Duke Energy, and 

· A $23 million increase in Depreciation and amortization primarily due to a decrease in the reduction of the cost of removal component of amortization expense as allowed under the 2012 and 2010 settlement agreements (See Note 4) and higher Environmental Cost Recovery Clause (ECRC) amortization due to less over-recovery, partially offset by lower nuclear cost-recovery amortization primarily related to the Levy nuclear station project. 

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to the prior-year favorable settlement of 2004 and 2005 income tax audits. 

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax net income. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 35.7% and 36.3%, respectively.  

Matters Impacting Future Progress Energy Florida’s Results  

In accordance with the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, with consumer representatives and approved by the FPSC, Progress Energy Florida retains the sole discretion and flexibility to retire Crystal River Unit 3. As a result of the decision to retire Crystal River Unit 3, under the terms of the 2012 FPSC Settlement Agreement, Progress Energy Florida is allowed to recover all remaining Crystal River Unit 3 investments and to earn a return on the Crystal River Unit 3 investments set at its current authorized overall cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a return on equity set at 70 percent of the current FPSC authorized return on equity, no earlier than the first billing cycle of January 2017. Progress Energy Florida expects that the FPSC will review the prudence of the retirement decision in Phase 2 of the Crystal River Unit 3 delamination regulatory docket. Progress Energy Florida has also asked the FPSC to review the mediated resolution of insurance claims with NEIL as part of Phase 3 of this regulatory docket. Phase 2 and Phase 3 hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin on June 19, 2013. Progress Energy Florida’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if the FPSC issues an unfavorable ruling. 

The ability to integrate with Duke Energy businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies expected from the merger with Duke Energy could be different from what Progress Energy Florida expects and may have a significant impact on Progress Energy Florida’s results of operations. 

55 

PART II  

DUKE ENERGY OHIO  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in Duke Energy Ohio’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating revenues. The variance was primarily driven by:  

· A $285 million decrease in electric revenues from the coal-fired generation assets driven primarily by the expiration of the 2009-2011 ESP, net of stability charge revenues, partially offset by the coal-fired generation assets participating in the PJM wholesale energy market in 2012, 

· A $39 million decrease in electric revenues from the gas-fired generation assets driven primarily by lower power prices, partially offset by increased volumes, and 

· An $18 million decrease in PJM capacity revenues related to lower average cleared capacity auction pricing in 2012 compared to 2011 for the gas-fired generation assets, net of an increase associated with the move of the coal-fired assets from MISO to PJM in 2012. 

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

· A $279 million increase in regulated fuel and purchased power revenues driven primarily by higher purchased power revenues collected under the new Ohio ESP which became effective January 1, 2012, partially offset by reduced gas sales volumes and lower natural gas costs, and 

· A $32 million increase in retail Ohio electric energy efficiency rider revenue resulting primarily from the approval of the final save-a-watt order for the years 2009-2012. 

Operating expenses. The variance was primarily driven by:  

· A $101 million decrease in operating and maintenance expenses resulting primarily from prior year recognition of MISO exit fees, higher prior year station outages, and regulatory asset amortization expenses, 

· An $88 million decrease primarily from the 2011 impairment of excess emission allowances as a result of the EPA’s issuance of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), and 

56 

PART II  

· An $85 million decrease in fuel expense from the gas-fired generation assets driven by lower natural gas costs, partially offset by higher volumes. 

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

· A $274 million increase in regulated fuel expense driven primarily by higher purchased power expense as a result of the new ESP, partially offset by reduced gas sales volumes and lower natural gas costs. 

Interest expense. The variance was primarily due to lower average debt balances in 2012 compared to 2011 and post in-service carrying charges related to new projects. 

Income tax expense. The variance in tax expense is primarily due to an increase in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 36.0% and 33.1%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a $10 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities as a result of an election related to the transfer of certain gas-fired generation assets to its wholly owned subsidiary Duke Energy Commercial Asset Management, LLC (DECAM) in the second quarter of 2011.  

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Ohio Results  

Duke Energy Ohio filed electric and gas distribution rate cases in July 2012. These planned rate cases are needed to recover capital investments, costs associated with MGP sites and operating costs. Duke Energy Ohio’s earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by the state regulatory commission.  

The current low energy price projections, as well as recently issued and proposed environmental regulations pertaining to coal and coal-fired generating facilities, could impact future cash flows and market valuations of Duke Energy Ohio’s coal-fired generation assets which could lead to impairment charges. 

57 

PART II  

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA  

INTRODUCTION   

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy Indiana’s net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $102 million net increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) primarily due to an increase in fuel rates as a result of higher fuel and purchased power costs, 

· A $17 million net increase in rate riders primarily related to higher recoveries under the clean coal technology and energy efficiency riders, and  

· A $12 million increase in rate pricing due to the positive impact on overall average prices of lower sales volumes. 

Partially offsetting these increases were: 

· A $31 million decrease in retail revenue due to a regulatory order to refund revenues to customers related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information, and 

· A $7 million decrease in retail revenues related to less favorable weather conditions and weather-normal sales volumes in 2012 compared to 2011. 

Operating Expenses. The variance was primarily due to:  

· A $378 million increase due to impairment and other charges recorded in 2012 related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction of $600 million, partially offset by a 2011 Edwardsport IGCC impairment charge of $222 million. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information, and 

· A $102 million increase in fuel costs primarily due to an increase in fuel rates as a result of higher fuel and purchased power costs. 

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

58 

PART II  

· A $29 million decrease in operation and maintenance primarily due to higher storm costs in the prior year, and lower generation and outage maintenance costs in 2012, partially offset by higher energy efficiency program costs. 

Income Tax (Benefit) Expense. The variance in income tax expense is primarily due to a decrease in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 59.5% and 30.6%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease in pretax income in 2012 related to the Edwardsport IGCC project. 

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Indiana Results  

On December 27, 2012, the IURC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Indiana and certain intervenors to cap the construction costs recoverable in retail rates. The Edwardsport IGCC plant is scheduled to begin commercial operation in mid-2013. Duke Energy Indiana’s earnings could be adversely impacted by additional delays in the commencement of operations which may result in increased costs.  

59 

PART II  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to develop as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that it believes are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting   

Duke Energy’s regulated operations (the substantial majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s operations) meet the criteria for application of regulatory accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP in the U.S. for nonregulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, litigation of rate orders, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. Total regulatory assets for Duke Energy were $11,741 million and $4,046 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total regulatory liabilities were $5,740 million and $3,006 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increases in regulatory assets and liabilities are driven primarily by the Progress Energy merger. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

In order to apply regulatory accounting treatment and record regulatory assets and liabilities, certain criteria must be met. In determining whether the criteria are met for its operations, management makes significant judgments, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition, it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations’ costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition, direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs.  

The regulatory accounting rules require recognition of a loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction or a recently completed plant will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. Such assessments can require significant judgment by management regarding matters such as the ultimate cost of a plant under construction, regulatory recovery implications, etc. As discussed in Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” during 2012, 2011 and 2010 Duke Energy Indiana recorded charges of $631 million, $222 million and $44 million, respectively, related to the IGCC plant currently under construction in Edwardsport, Indiana. Management will continue to assess matters as the construction of the plant and the related regulatory proceedings continue, and further charges could be required in 2013 or beyond. Also as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Sales of Other Assets”, Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas recorded disallowance charges in 2012 in order to gain FERC approval of the merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy. 

As discussed further in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy Ohio discontinued the application of regulatory accounting treatment to portions of its generation operations in November 2011 in conjunction with the approval of its new Electric Security Plan by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. The effect of this change was immaterial to the financial statements.  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments   

Duke Energy’s goodwill balances are included in the following table.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. During 2012, Duke Energy recorded $12,467 million of goodwill associated with the merger with Progress Energy. This goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date, and was preliminarily allocated entirely to the USFE&G segment. The goodwill recognized is subject to change as additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. See Note 2, “Acquisitions and Sales of Other Assets,” for additional information on the merger with Progress Energy. 

The remainder of USFE&G’s goodwill relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006. Commercial Power’s goodwill resulted from the 2008 acquisition of Catamount Energy Corporation, a leading wind power company located in Rutland, Vermont, and has been allocated to the Renewables reporting unit. International Energy’s goodwill resulted from various acquisitions, including $59 million from the 2012 acquisition of Iberoamericana de Energia Ibener S.A. in Chile. See Note 2, “Acquisitions and Sales of Other Assets,” for additional information. 

60 

PART II  

Duke Energy recorded impairments of $500 million related to Commercial Power’s nonregulated Midwest generation reporting unit in 2010. Subsequent to the 2010 impairment charge there is no recorded amount of goodwill at Commercial Power’s nonregulated Midwest generation reporting unit. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments” for further information regarding the factors impacting the valuation of Commercial Power’s nonregulated generation reporting unit. Duke Energy determined that no other goodwill impairments existed in 2012, 2011, and 2010.  

As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Duke Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  

The analysis of the potential impairment of goodwill may first consider qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., greater than 50 percent chance) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its book value. This is sometimes referred to as “step zero” and is an optional step in the annual goodwill impairment analysis. If the results of qualitative assessments indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, the two-step impairment test is required. Step one of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of reporting units with their carrying values, including goodwill. If the carrying amount is less than fair value in step one, further testing of goodwill is not performed. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, step two must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of the goodwill impairment loss. Step two of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill against the carrying value of the goodwill. Under step two, determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires the valuation of a reporting unit’s identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination on the testing date. The difference between the fair value of the entire reporting unit as determined in step one and the net fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. The goodwill impairment charge, if any, would be the difference between the carrying amount of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill upon the completion of step two.  

As a result of the acquisition of Progress Energy, Duke Energy performed step one of the goodwill impairment test as of August 31, 2012, and concluded the fair value of each of its reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values, and thus, did not record any impairment charges. In 2011, Duke Energy performed the qualitative assessments under step zero and concluded that it was more likely than not the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Thus, the two step goodwill impairment test was not necessary in 2011.  

When performing step zero of the goodwill impairment test, Duke Energy’s qualitative assessments include reviews of current forecasts compared to prior forecasts, consideration of recent fair value calculations, if any, review of the stock price performance of Duke Energy and its peers, credit ratings of Duke Energy’s significant subsidiaries, updates to weighted average cost of capital (WACC) calculations or review of the key inputs to the WACC and consideration of overall economic factors, recent regulatory commission actions and related regulatory climates, and recent financial performance.  

For purposes of the step one analyses, determination of the reporting units’ fair values is based on a combination of the income approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on discounted future cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Generally, more emphasis is applied to the income approach as it represents management’s best estimate of future value. Key assumptions used in the income approach analyses include, but are not limited to, estimated future cash flows and the use of an appropriate discount rate. The market approach uses implied market multiples derived from comparable peer utilities and market transactions to estimate the fair value.  

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory and economic stability, the ability to renew contracts and other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units to be significantly different in future periods.  

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the WACC for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). In the 2012 step one impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACC’s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. For example, transmission and distribution reporting units generally would have a lower company specific risk premium as they do not have the higher level of risk associated with owning and operating generation assets nor do they have significant construction risk or risk associated with potential future carbon legislation or pending EPA regulations. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2012, for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 5.2% to 7.1%. For Duke Energy’s international operations, a country specific risk adder based on the average of risk premium for each separate jurisdiction in which International Energy operates was added to the base discount rate to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions and countries. This resulted in a discount rate for the August 31, 2012 goodwill impairment test for the international operations of 8.5%. 

The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

The majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, changes in discount rates may have a significant impact on the fair value of equity. As of August 31, 2012, all of the USFE&G  

61 

PART II  

reporting units’ estimated fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity by more than 10%, except Progress Energy Florida which has preliminarily been allocated goodwill of $2,457 million. Management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment tests. 

As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments”, the fair value of USFE&G’s Progress Energy Florida reporting unit and Commercial Power’s Renewables reporting unit are impacted by a multitude of factors, including legislative actions related to tax credit extensions, long-term growth rate assumptions, the market price of power and discount rates. As of December 31, 2012, the Progress Energy Florida reporting unit and the Renewables reporting unit’s estimated fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity by less than 10%. Management continues to monitor these assumptions for any indicators that the fair value of the reporting unit could be below the carrying value, and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments   

Property, plant and equipment is stated at the lower of historical cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the carrying value of the assets. Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets, and developing the undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset. Additionally, determining the fair value of the asset requires probability weighting the future cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value of the asset and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.  

When it becomes probable that regulated generation, transmission or distribution assets have been abandoned, the cost of the asset is removed from plant in service. The value that may be retained as an asset on the balance sheet for the abandoned property is dependent upon amounts that may be recovered through regulated rates, including any return. As such, an impairment charge could be offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset if rate recovery is probable.  

As discussed further in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” in the third quarter of 2012, Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas recorded certain impairment charges in conjunction with the merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy. In the third quarter of 2011, Commercial Power recorded $79 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to Clean Air Act emission allowances which were no longer expected to be used as a result of the issuance of the final Cross State Air Pollution Rule. In the second quarter of 2010, Commercial Power recorded $160 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to certain generating assets and emission allowances in the Midwest to write-down the value of these assets to their estimated fair value, which was impacted by the EPA’s rules on emissions of NOx and SO2. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Revenue Recognition   

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Operating revenues include unbilled electric and gas revenues earned when service has been delivered but not billed by the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh) or per Mcf for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh or Mcf delivered but not billed. Unbilled wholesale energy revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per megawatt-hour (MWh) to the number of estimated MWh delivered but not yet billed. Unbilled wholesale demand revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MW to the MW volume delivered but not yet billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns, customer mix and the average price in effect for customer classes.  

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Duke Energy had $920 million and $674 million, respectively, of unbilled revenues within Restricted Receivables of Variable Interest Entities and Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies   

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985. Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves in the respective Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $751 million and $801 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2030. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy after 2030. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2030 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.  

62 

PART II  

Duke Energy Carolinas has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy’s cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy in 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $935 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $781 million and $813 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

For further information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes   

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any.  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The probability of realizing deferred tax assets is based on forecasts of future taxable income and the use of tax planning that could impact the ability to realize deferred tax assets. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, a valuation allowance may be recorded against certain deferred tax assets.  

In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the impacts of various items, including changes to income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

Significant judgment is also required in computing Duke Energy’s quarterly effective tax rate (ETR). The ETR calculations are revised each quarter based on the best annual tax assumptions available at that time, including, but not limited to, income levels, deductions and credits. In accordance with interim tax reporting rules, a tax expense or benefit is recorded every quarter to adjust for the difference in tax expense computed based on the actual year-to-date ETR versus the forecasted annual ETR, excluding discrete items impacting income tax expense that have occurred year-to-date.  

Duke Energy recognizes tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. Duke Energy records the largest amount of the tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine recognition thresholds and the related amount of tax benefits to be recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions when new information about recognition or measurement becomes available. The portion of the tax benefit which is uncertain is disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Undistributed foreign earnings associated with International Energy’s operations are considered indefinitely reinvested. As a result, no U.S. tax is recorded on such earnings. This assertion is based on management’s determination that the cash held in International Energy’s foreign jurisdictions is not needed to fund the operations of its U.S. operations and that International Energy either has invested or has intentions to reinvest such earnings. While management currently intends to indefinitely reinvest all of International Energy’s unremitted earnings, should circumstances change, Duke Energy may need to record additional income tax expense in the period in which such determination changes. The cumulative undistributed earnings as of December 31, 2012, on which Duke Energy has not provided deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes is approximately $2.0 billion. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these undistributed earnings is estimated at between $275 million and $350 million.  

For further information, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits   

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit plans are determined by government regulations. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its defined benefit retirement plans of $200 million in 2012, $200 million in 2011, and $400 million in 2010 and mandatory contributions of $104 million in 2012. In 2013, Duke Energy anticipates making $350 million of contributions to its defined benefit plans.  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries, including Progress Energy and Cinergy, maintain, and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain Progress Energy and Cinergy U.S. employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under the Cinergy final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Under the Progress Energy final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 4-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 4-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 4-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains, and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

63 

PART II  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries provide, and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $117 million in 2012. In 2013, Duke Energy’s pre-tax qualified pension cost is expected to be $61 million higher than in 2012 resulting primarily from a 2013 decrease in the discount rate on obligations and expected long-term rate of return on assets, and 12 months of expense recognition in 2013 for the Progress Energy plans. Duke Energy recognized pre-tax nonqualified pension cost of $19 million and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits cost of $80 million, in 2012. In 2013, pre-tax non-qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately the same amount as in 2012. In 2013, pre-tax other post-retirement benefits costs are expected to be approximately $46 million higher than in 2012 resulting primarily from 12 months of expense recognition in 2013 for the Progress Energy plans.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumes that its plan’s assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 7.75% as of December 31, 2012. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in two master trusts, the Duke Energy Master Retirement Trust and the Progress Energy Master Trust. The investment objective of the master trusts is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation targets were set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers on investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I). The investment objective of VEBA I is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. VEBA I is passively managed.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 7.75% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns for the master trusts based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes for the Duke Energy Retirement Master Trust were 2.53% for U.S. equities, 1.46% for Non-U.S. equities, 0.97% for global equities, 1.65% for debt securities, 0.36% for global private equity, 0.22% for hedge funds, 0.28% for real estate and 0.28% for other global securities. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes for the Progress Energy Master Trust were 1.83% for U.S. equities, 1.41% for Non-U.S. equities, 0.78% for global equities, 1.67% for debt securities, 1.20% for global private equity, 0.57% for hedge funds, 0.08% for real estate and 0.21% for other global securities 

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 4.1% as of December 31, 2012. The discount rates used to measure benefit plan benefit obligations for financial reporting purposes should reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2012, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to provide for the projected benefit payments of the plan. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2012 pre-tax pension expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25% change in rates were to occur. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2012, the medical care trend rates were 8.5%, which grades to 5.00% by 2020. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2012 pre-tax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1% point change in the health care trend rate were to occur. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

64 

PART II  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

Overview   

At December 31, 2012, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.8 billion, of which $1.1 billion is held in foreign jurisdictions and is forecasted to be used to fund the operations of and investments in International Energy. To fund its domestic liquidity and capital requirements, Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, and its existing cash and cash equivalents. The relatively stable operating cash flows of USFE&G compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements. Weather conditions, commodity price fluctuations and unanticipated expenses, including unplanned plant outages and storms, could affect the timing and level of internally generated funds.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

With respect to the 2013 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $6.3 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should economic or financing conditions deteriorate. Of the $6.3 billion budget, $1.3 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the final construction of the Edwardsport IGCC plant and the Sutton combined cycle gas-fired facility, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2013 irrespective of broader economic factors. $4.6 billion of projected 2013 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance and upgrades, customer connections, compliance with new environmental requirements and corporate capital expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2013 capital expenditures of $0.4 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities that meet return expectations.  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, or if construction costs of renewable generation exceed amounts provided through power sales agreements and tax credits, future cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 2.5 times for 2012, 3.2 times for 2011, and 3.0 times for 2010.  

In 2013, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing additional debt of $4.3 billion, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures and debt maturities. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2013 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2013 could be influenced by changes in capital spending.  

Duke Energy has access to a $6 billion master credit facility, which is not restricted upon general market conditions. At December 31, 2012, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of $4.9 billion under this facility. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving master credit facility are accessible should there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2013. Management expects that cash flows from operations and issuances of debt will be sufficient to cover the 2013 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures, dividend payments and debt maturities. See “Credit Facilities” section below for additional information regarding Duke Energy’s credit facility.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt covenants during 2013. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such  

65 

PART II  

potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Duke Energy periodically evaluates the impact of repatriation of cash generated and held in foreign countries. Duke Energy’s current intent is to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view, including a future change in tax law governing U.S. taxation of foreign earnings. If Duke Energy were to decide to repatriate foreign generated and held cash, recognition of material U.S. federal income tax liabilities could be required.  

Cash Flow Information   

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

66 

PART II  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities – 2012 - 2013. 

Duke Energy’s outstanding long-term debt, including current maturities as of December 31, 2012, includes approximately $17.8 billion assumed in the merger with Progress Energy. This amount includes $2.3 billion of fair value adjustments recorded in connection with purchase accounting for the Progress Energy merger, which are not part of future principal payments and will amortize over the remaining life of the debt. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Acquisitions, Dispositions and Sales of Other Assets” for additional information related to the merger with Progress Energy. 

On February 6, 2013, Duke Energy announced that it will redeem all shares of the three and five series of preferred stock issued by Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida, respectively, of $93 million on March 8, 2013. 

 In January 2013, Duke Energy issued $500 million of unsecured junior subordinated debentures, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.125%, are callable at par after five years and mature January 15, 2073. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem at par $300 million of 7.10% junior subordinated debt in February 2013, with the remainder to repay a portion of commercial paper as it matures, to fund capital expenditures of our unregulated businesses and for general corporate purposes. 

In December 2012, Duke Energy entered credit agreements with a commercial bank for a $190 million bridge loan and a $200 million revolving loan. The bridge loan carries a variable interest rate equal to the 180-day Libor rate plus 0.80% and matures on June 20, 2013. The revolving loan carries a variable interest rate equal to the 360-day Libor rate plus 1.35% and is payable in full on December 20, 2013; Duke Energy has the right to extend the term of the revolving loan for an additional 1-year terms, not to exceed a final maturity of 13 years from the date of the initial funding. Both loans are collateralized with cash deposits equal to 101% of the loan amounts, and therefore no net proceeds from the financings exist as of December 31, 2012.  

In December 2012, Los Vientos Windpower IA, LLC (Los Vientos 1A) and Los Vientos Windpower 1B, LLC (Los Vientos 1B), subsidiaries of Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS) an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, each entered into long-term loan agreements of $246 million and $177 million, respectively. Of the total loan amounts for Los Vientos 1A and Los Vientos 1B, $110 million for each is at a fixed interest rate of  

67 

PART II  

4.740% that mature in June, 2037 and June, 2036, respectively. The remainder of the Los Vientos 1A and Los Vientos 1B loan amounts of $136 million and $67 million, respectively, is at the six month adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin that was initially set at 2.774% for each loan. In connection with the variable rate portion of the loans, Los Vientos 1A and Los Vientos 1B entered into interest rate swaps to convert the substantial majority of the variable rate loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of 2.055% and 2.0175%, respectively, plus the applicable margin, which was 2.25% as of December 31, 2012 for each loan and each of these loans is due to mature June 30, 2030. The collateral for the loans are substantially all of the assets of Los Vientos Windpower IA, LLC and Los Vientos Windpower 1B, LLC. Proceeds from the issuances will be used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In November 2012, Progress Energy Florida issued $650 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $250 million carry a fixed interest rate of 0.65% and mature November 15, 2015 and $400 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.85% and mature November 15, 2042. Proceeds from the issuances will be used to repay $425 million 4.80% first mortgage bonds due March 1, 2013, as well as for general corporate purposes. 

In September 2012, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $650 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.00% and mature September 30, 2042. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay at maturity the $420 million debentures due through November 2012, as well as for general corporate purposes, including the funding of capital expenditures.  

In August 2012, Duke Energy Corporation issued $1.2 billion of senior unsecured notes, of which $700 million carry a fixed interest rate of 1.625% and mature August 15, 2017 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.05% and mature August 15, 2022. Proceeds from the issuances were used to repay at maturity Duke Energy Ohio’s $500 million debentures due September 15, 2012 as well as for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper.  

In April 2012, Duke Energy executed a joint venture agreement with Sumitomo Corporation of America (SCOA). Under the terms of the agreement, Duke Energy and SCOA each own a 50% interest in the joint venture (DS Cornerstone, LLC), which owns two wind generation projects. The facilities began commercial operations in June 2012 and August 2012. Duke Energy and SCOA also negotiated a $330 million, Construction and 12-year amortizing Term Loan Facility, on behalf of the borrower, a wholly owned subsidiary of the joint venture. The loan agreement is non-recourse to Duke Energy. Duke Energy received proceeds of $319 million upon execution of the loan agreement. This amount represents reimbursement of a significant portion of Duke Energy’s construction costs incurred as of the date of the agreement. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities” for further information. 

In March 2012, Duke Energy Indiana issued $250 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.20% and mature March 15, 2042. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay a portion of Duke Energy Indiana’s outstanding short-term debt.  

In January 2012, Duke Energy Carolinas used proceeds from its December 2011 $1 billion issuance of principal amount of first mortgage bonds to repay $750 million 6.25% senior unsecured notes that matured January 15, 2012.  

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities — 2011.  

In December 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $1 billion principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $350 million carry a fixed interest rate of 1.75% and mature December 15, 2016 and $650 million carry a fixed interest rate of 4.25% and mature December 15, 2041. Proceeds from the issuances were used to repay $750 million 6.25% senior unsecured notes which matured January 15, 2012, with the remainder to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. 

In November 2011, Duke Energy issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes, which carry a fixed interest rate of 2.15% and mature November 15, 2016. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In the third quarter of 2011, Duke Energy issued an additional $450 million in Commercial Paper. Proceeds from this issuance were used for general corporate purposes. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Duke Energy repaid $375 million of Commercial Paper with the proceeds from the August 2011 Duke Energy debt issuances discussed below.  

In August 2011, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.55% and mature September 15, 2021. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay a portion of Duke Energy’s commercial paper, as discussed above, as it matures, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.90% and mature June 15, 2021. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities — 2010.  

In December 2010, Top of the World Wind Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of DEGS, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $193 million principal amount maturing in December 2028. The collateral for this loan is substantially all of the assets of Top of the World Windpower LLC. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of 3.465% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.375% as of December 31, 2012. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $143 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.375% and mature October 2031. Prior to the conversion, the bonds were held by Duke Energy Carolinas as treasury bonds. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.625% and mature November 1, 2040. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $70 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $70 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, of which $60 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.375% and mature March 1, 2019, and $10 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.75% and mature April 1, 2022. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In July 2010, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of 3.75% first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $123 million of borrowings under the Master Credit Facility, to fund Duke Energy Indiana’s ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

68 

PART II  

In July 2010, International Energy issued $281 million principal amount in Brazil, which carries an interest rate of 8.59% plus IGP-M (Brazil’s monthly inflation index) non-convertible debentures due July 2015. Proceeds of the issuance were used to refinance Brazil debt related to DEIGP and for future debt maturities in Brazil.  

In June 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $450 million principal amount of 4.30% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2010, Green Frontier Wind Power, LLC, a subsidiary of DEGS, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $325 million principal amount maturing in 2025. The collateral for this loan is a group of five wind farms located in Wyoming, Colorado and Pennsylvania. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of approximately 3.4% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.5% as of December 30, 2012. Proceeds from the issuance were used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In March 2010, Duke Energy issued $450 million principal amount of 3.35% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2015. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $274 million of borrowings under the master credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  

Credit Facilities   

Master Credit Facility Summary. In November 2011, Duke Energy entered into a $6 billion, 5-year master credit facility, expiring in November 2016, with $4 billion available at closing and the remaining $2 billion available following successful completion of the merger with Progress Energy. In October 2012, the Duke Energy Registrants reached an agreement with banks representing $5.63 billion of commitments under the master credit facility to extend the expiration date by one year to November 2017. Through November 2016, the available credit under this facility remains $6 billion. The Duke Energy Registrants each have borrowing capacity under the master credit facility up to specified sublimits for each borrower. However, Duke Energy has the unilateral ability at any time to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to a maximum sublimit for each borrower. See the table below for the borrowing sublimits for each of the borrowers as of December 31, 2012. The amount available under the master credit facility is reduced by the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, certain letters of credit and variable rate demand tax-exempt bonds that may be put to the Company at the option of the holder. Borrowing sublimits for the Subsidiary Registrants are also reduced for amounts outstanding under the money pool arrangement. The credit facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65% for each borrower. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In January 2012, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $156 million 2-year bilateral letter of credit agreement, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $129 million and $27 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable-rate demand bonds. In addition, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a $78 million 2-year bilateral letter of credit facility. These credit facilities may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. In February 2012, letters of credit were issued corresponding to the amount of the facilities to support various series of tax-exempt bonds at Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. In February 2013, the letters of credit were amended to extend the expiration date to January 2015. 

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2012, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Duke Energy’s corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, respectively, as of February 13, 2013 is BBB+, Baa2 and BBB, respectively. As of February 13, 2013, the Duke Energy Registrants’ have a stable outlook rating from Fitch and Moody’s, with the exception of Progress Energy Florida, which has a negative outlook at Fitch. In addition, the Duke Energy Registrants have a negative outlook rating from S&P. 

 The following table includes the Duke Energy Registrants’ Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings as of February 13, 2013. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

69 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

Credit-Related Clauses.  Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at S&P or Moody’s. As of December 31, 2012, Duke Energy had $9 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

First Mortgage Bond Restrictions. The Subsidiary Registrants’ first mortgage bonds are secured under their respective mortgage indentures. Each mortgage constitutes a first lien on substantially all of the fixed properties of the respective company, subject to certain permitted encumbrances and exceptions. The lien of each mortgage also covers subsequently acquired property. Each mortgage allows the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds based on property additions, retirements of first mortgage bonds and the deposit of cash if certain conditions are satisfied. Most of the Subsidiary Registrants are required to pass a “net earnings” test in order to issue new first mortgage bonds, other than on the basis of retired bonds under certain circumstances. The test requires that the issuer’s adjusted net earnings, which is calculated based on results for 12 consecutive months within the prior 15 to 18 months, be at least twice the annual interest requirement for bonds currently outstanding and to be outstanding. Duke Energy Indiana’s and Progress Energy Florida’s ratios of net earnings to the annual interest requirement for bonds have at times in 2012 been below 2.0 times, due to various charges to operating expenses. As discussed in Note 4, Regulatory Matters, these charges and any future charges may impact future net earnings tests and affect the ability of Duke Energy Indiana and Progress Energy Florida to issue first mortgage bonds. In the event Duke Energy Indiana’s or Progress Energy Florida’s long-term debt requirements exceed its first mortgage bond capacity, Duke Energy Indiana or Progress Energy Florida can access alternative sources of capital, including, but not limited to issuing unsecured debt, borrowing under the money pool, entering into bilateral direct loan arrangements, and, if necessary, utilizing available capacity under the master credit facility. All other DEC registrants have earnings substantially in excess of the net earnings test requirement for issuing first mortgage bonds. 

Other Financing Matters. The following table shows significant amounts presented as Current maturities of long-term debt on the Duke Energy Registrants respective Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012. The amounts were presented as Long-term debt as of December 31, 2011, except for the secured debt. The Duke Energy Registrants’ currently anticipates satisfying these obligations with proceeds from additional borrowings, unless otherwise noted. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

On November 13, 2012, Duke Energy filed a prospectus supplement to the September 2010 Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to sell up to $1 billion of fixed or variable rate unsecured senior notes, called InterNotes, due one year to 30 years from the date of issuance. The InterNotes will be issued in the retail markets as direct, unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Duke Energy Corporation. The net proceeds from the sale of InterNotes will be used to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses and for general corporate purposes. The balance as of December 31, 2012 is $35 million, with maturities ranging from 10 to14 years. The notes reflect long-term debt obligations of Duke Energy and are reflected as Long-term debt on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

On March 1, 2012, Progress Energy, as a well-known seasoned issuer, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida filed a combined shelf registration statement with the SEC, which became effective upon filing with the SEC. The registration statement is effective for three years and does not limit the amount or number of various securities that can be issued. On July 3, 2012, Progress Energy deregistered its equity securities from the registration statement in connection with the merger with Progress Energy, but retained its ability to issue senior debt securities and junior subordinated debentures under the registration statement. However, we do not expect Progress Energy to issue any new securities of these types in the  

70 

PART II  

future. Under Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s registration statements, they may issue various long-term debt securities and preferred stock.  

On April 4, 2011, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC to sell up to $1 billion (maximum of $500 million of notes outstanding at any particular time) of variable denomination floating rate demand notes, called PremierNotes. The notes are offered on a continuous basis and bear interest at a floating rate per annum determined by the Duke Energy PremierNotes Committee, or its designee, on a weekly basis. The interest rate payable on notes held by an investor may vary based on the principal amount of the investment. The notes have no stated maturity date, but may be redeemed in whole or in part by Duke Energy at any time. The notes are non-transferable and may be redeemed in whole or in part at the investor’s option. Proceeds from the sale of the notes will be used for general corporate purposes. The balance as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, is $395 million and $79 million, respectively. The notes reflect a short-term debt obligation of Duke Energy and are reflected as Notes Payable and Commercial Paper on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy filed a Form S-3 with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 87 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.  

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters”, Duke Energy’s wholly owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy’s mergers with Cinergy and Progress Energy. Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida also have restrictions imposed by their first mortgage bond indentures and Articles of Incorporation which, in certain circumstances, limited their ability to make cash dividends or distributions on common stock. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2012, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is $10.3 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated equity accounts. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp (Spectra Energy), having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of their respective guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been incurred as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by third parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. 

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Contractual Obligations   

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2012. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

71 

PART II  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Risk Management Policies. The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit quality, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

The following disclosures about market risk contain forward-looking statements that involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Please review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the factors that may impact any such forward-looking statements made herein. 

The risks discussed below do not include the price risks associated with nonfinancial instrument transactions and positions associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations, such as purchase and sales commitments and inventory.  

Commodity Price Risk  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. The Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operations as these regulated operations are typically allowed to recover substantially all of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations. At December 31, 2012, substantially all derivative commodity instrument positions were subject to regulatory accounting treatment.  

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. The Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. The Duke Energy Registrants employ established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”  

73 

PART II  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from the Duke Energy Registrants’ deal origination areas. While the Duke Energy Registrants use common industry practices to develop their valuation techniques, changes in their pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. The Duke Energy Registrants closely monitor the risks associated with commodity price changes on their future operations and, where appropriate, use various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations, in addition to optimizing the value of the non-regulated generation portfolio. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

The majority of instruments used to manage the Duke Energy Registrants’ commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.  

Certain derivatives used to manage the Duke Energy Registrants’ commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until after delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement to the extent they are effective. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the Duke Energy Registrants enter into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as an NPNS, the Duke Energy registrants apply such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.  

Generation Portfolio Risks. The Duke Energy Registrants are primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their wholesale and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output, fuel requirements, and emission allowance requirements are based on forward power, fuel and emission allowance markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. For Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana, as well as the Kentucky regulated generation owned by Duke Energy Ohio, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to wholesale commodity price risks for its non-regulated generation portfolio. The non-regulated generation portfolio dispatches all of their electricity into unregulated markets and receives wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from PJM. Duke Energy Ohio has fully hedged its forecasted coal-fired generation for 2013. Capacity revenues are 100% contracted in PJM through May 2015. International Energy generally hedges its expected generation using long-term bilateral power sales contracts when favorable market conditions exist and it is subject to wholesale commodity price risks for electricity not sold under such contracts. International Energy dispatches electricity not sold under long-term bilateral contracts into unregulated markets and receives wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from national system operators. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2013 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, fuel oil and coal. See “Sensitivity Analysis for Generation Portfolio and Derivative Price Risks” below, for more information regarding the effect of changes in commodity prices on the Duke Energy Registrants’ net income.  

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2012, pre-tax income in 2013 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

Sensitivity Analysis for Generation Portfolio and Derivative Price Risks. The table below summarizes the estimated effect of commodity price changes on the Duke Energy Registrants’ pre-tax net income, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 for Duke Energy and Duke Energy Ohio. Forecasted exposure to commodity price risk for Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana is not anticipated to have a material adverse effect on their consolidated results of operations in 2013, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2012. The sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2011 related to forecasted exposure to commodity price risk during 2012 also indicated that commodity price risk would not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations of Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana during 2012 and the impacts of changing commodity prices in their consolidated results of operations for 2012 was insignificant. The following commodity price sensitivity calculations consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, as indicated in the table below, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

74 

PART II  

Credit Risk   

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit them to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable obtaining collateral or terminating or resetting the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. The Duke Energy Registrants may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of their counterparties’ obligations. The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. The Duke Energy Registrants frequently use master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal customers for its electric and gas businesses are commodity clearinghouses, regional transmission organizations, industrial, commercial and residential end-users, marketers, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establish credit limits and monitor the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to its asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by the third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $935 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $781 million and $813 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Duke Energy Carolinas is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that they could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by the Duke Energy Registrants.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk of their vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including, but not limited to, outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit or letter of credit until a satisfactory payment history is established, subject to the rules and regulations in effect in each retail jurisdiction, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through the retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through CRC, a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

European Exposures.  At December 31, 2012, Duke Energy held $62 million of money market funds and short term investments in investment-grade debt securities issued by financial and nonfinancial institutions that are domiciled in Europe or have exposures to European sovereign debt. This amount is recorded at fair value and included in Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investment in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A disorderly default by or withdrawal of a member nation from the euro zone and financial stress in other European countries could require Duke Energy to recognize an impairment of some or all of these securities.  

75 

PART II  

Interest Rate Risk   

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. The Duke Energy Registrants manage interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. The Duke Energy Registrants also enter into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 15, and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities.”  

The table below summarizes the potential effect of interest rate changes on the Duke Energy Registrants’ pre-tax net income, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The change in interest rate sensitivity for the Duke Energy Registrants’ is primarily due to changes in short-term debt balances and cash balances. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial structure.  

Marketable Securities Price Risk   

As described further in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.  

Pension Plan Assets. Duke Energy and Progress Energy maintain investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in these pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy and Progress Energy have established asset allocation targets for their pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. These target allocations are presented in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase funding of its pension plans in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows of the Duke Energy Registrants in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations in those periods. Contributions to qualified pension plans during 2012 are presented in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

76 

PART II  

Duke Energy intends to contribute $350 million to its qualified pension plan in 2013. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

NDTF. As required by the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and the FPSC, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida maintain trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2012, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments in equity securities are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets. The Duke Energy Registrants actively monitor their portfolios by benchmarking the performance of their investments against certain indices and by maintaining, and periodically reviewing, target allocation percentages for various asset classes. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not affect their Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” for additional information regarding NTDF assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk   

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar/inflation rates and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2012, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure was to the Brazilian Real. The table below summarizes the potential effect of foreign currency devaluations on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

OTHER ISSUES  

Fixed Charges Coverage Ratios 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ fixed charges coverage ratios, as calculated using SEC guidelines, are included in the table below.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Global Climate Change  

77 

PART II  

The EPA publishes an inventory of man-made U.S. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions annually. In 2010, the most recent year reported, carbon dioxide (CO2), a byproduct of all sources of combustion, accounted for approximately 84 percent of total U.S. GHG emissions. The Duke Energy Registrants’ GHG emissions consist primarily of CO2 and most come from its fleet of coal-fired power plants in the U.S. In 2012, the Duke Energy Registrants’ U.S. power plants emitted approximately 132 million tons of CO2. The CO2 emissions from Duke Energy’s international electric operations were approximately 3 million tons. The Duke Energy Registrants’ future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables including new regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand, and the Duke Energy Registrants’ decisions regarding generation technologies deployed to meet customer electricity needs. 

The Duke Energy Registrants believe it is unlikely that legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions or establishing a carbon tax will be passed by the 113th Congress which began on January 3, 2013. Beyond 2014 the prospects for enactment of any federal legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions or establishing a carbon tax is highly uncertain. Given the high degree of uncertainty surrounding potential future federal GHG legislation, management cannot predict if or when such legislation might be enacted, what the requirements of any potential legislation might be, or the potential impact it might have on the Duke Energy Registrants. Among the outcomes of the 18th Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change which concluded in December 2012 was an affirmation by the participating countries to complete negotiations on a new global agreement by 2015 that would take effect in 2020. The international climate change negotiating process is highly uncertain and management cannot predict what the outcome might be or the potential impact it might have on the Duke Energy Registrants. 

 The Duke Energy Registrants do not anticipate any of the states in which it currently operates fossil-fueled electric generating units taking action absent a federal requirement to mandate reductions in GHG emissions from these facilities. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are taking actions today that will result in reduced GHG emissions over time. These actions will lower the Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to any future mandatory GHG emission reduction requirements or carbon tax, whether a result of federal legislation or EPA regulation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms. 

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize that certain groups associate severe weather events with climate change, and forecast the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes of extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place, and the inability to predict these with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations that may result from the physical risks of potential changes in the frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events, whatever the cause or causes might be, impossible. Currently, the Duke Energy Registrants plan and prepare for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future severe weather events to reduce, but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events. For example, the Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on its electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in its fuel supply so it can continue to provide its customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. The Duke Energy Registrants have a program in place to effectively manage the impact of future droughts on its operations. 

Other EPA Regulations Recently Published and Under Development   

The EPA has issued and is in various stages of developing several non-greenhouse gas (non-GHG) environmental regulations that will affect the Duke Energy Registrants. These include the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) for hazardous air pollutants, which is effective beginning in 2015, as well as proposed regulations for cooling water intake structures under the Clean Water Act 316(b) and proposed regulations for coal combustion residuals. As a group, these non-GHG environmental regulations will require the Duke Energy Registrants to install additional environmental controls and accelerate retirement of some coal-fired units. While the ultimate regulatory requirements for the Duke Energy Registrants from the group of EPA regulatory actions will not be known until all the rules have been finalized, for planning purposes, the Duke Energy Registrants currently estimate the cost of new control equipment that may need to be installed to comply with this group of rules could total $5 billion to $6 billion, excluding AFUDC, over the next 10 years. This range includes estimated costs for new control equipment necessary to comply with the MATS of $650 million to $800 million. The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other expenses in conjunction with the non-GHG EPA regulations. In addition to the plant retirements associated with new generation the Duke Energy Registrants are constructing, the Duke Energy Registrants are planning to retire additional coal fired generating capacity that is not economic to bring into compliance with the EPA’s regulations. Beyond 2012, total planned and potential retirements could exceed 3,900 MW of coal-fired generating capacity. The Duke Energy Registrants would also expect to incur costs for replacement generation as a result of the potential coal-fired power plant retirements. Until the final regulatory requirements of the group of EPA regulations are known and can be fully evaluated, the potential compliance costs associated with these EPA regulatory actions are subject to considerable uncertainty. Therefore, the actual compliance costs incurred and MW to be retired may be materially different from these estimates based on the timing and requirements of the final EPA regulations. 

For additional information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” 

Nuclear Matters  

Following the events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in Japan, Duke Energy conducted thorough inspections at each of its four nuclear sites during 2011. Progress Energy also conducted inspections in 2011 at each of its three sites. The initial inspections have not identified any significant vulnerabilities, however, Duke Energy is reviewing designs to evaluate safety margins to external events. Emergency-response capabilities, written procedures and engineering specifications were reviewed to verify each site’s ability to respond in the unlikely event of station blackout. Duke Energy is working within the nuclear industry to improve the safety standards and margin using the three layers of safety approach used in the U.S.: protection, mitigation and emergency response. Emergency equipment is currently being added at each station to perform key safety functions in the event that backup power sources are lost permanently. These improvements are in addition to the numerous layers of safety measures and systems previously in place. 

In March 2011, the NRC formed a task force to conduct a comprehensive review of processes and regulations to determine whether the agency should make additional improvements to the nuclear regulatory system. On July 13, 2011, the task force proposed a set of improvements designed to ensure protection, enhance accident mitigation, strengthen emergency preparedness and improve efficiency of NRC programs. The recommendations  

78 

PART II  

were further prioritized into three tiers based on the safety enhancement level. On March 12, 2012, the NRC issued three regulatory orders requiring safety enhancements related to mitigation strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at a plant, ensuring reliable hardened containment vents and enhancing spent fuel pool instrumentation. 

In May 2012, the NRC endorsed guidance on re-evaluating emergency communications systems and staffing levels and performing seismic and flooding walkdowns. On July 13, 2012, the NRC outlined plans for implementing Tier 2 and Tier 3 recommendations. On August 30, 2012, the NRC issued implementation guidance to enable power plants to achieve compliance with the orders issued in March 2012. Plants are then required to submit implementation plans to the NRC by February 28, 2013, and complete implementation of the safety enhancements within two refueling outages or by December 31, 2016, whichever comes first. Each plant is also required to reassess their seismic and flooding hazards using present-day methods and information, conduct inspections to ensure protection against hazards in the current design basis, and re-evaluate emergency communications systems and staffing levels. 

Duke Energy is committed to compliance with all safety enhancements ordered by the NRC in connection with the March 12, 2012, regulatory orders noted above, the cost of which could be material. Until such time as the NRC mandated reassessment of flooding and seismic hazards is complete the exact scope and cost of compliance modifications to our sites will not be known. With the NRC’s continuing review of the remaining recommendations, Duke Energy cannot predict to what extent the NRC will impose additional licensing and safety-related requirements, or the costs of complying with such requirements. The tight time frame required to complete the necessary safety enhancements by no later than 2016 could lead to even higher costs. Upon receipt of additional guidance from the NRC and a collaborative industry review, Duke Energy will be able to determine an implementation plan and associated costs. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of applicable risk factors. 

New Accounting Standards  

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK