PART I  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Unless otherwise indicated, the risk factors discussed below generally relate to risks associated with all of the Duke Energy Registrants. Risks identified at the Subsidiary Registrant level are generally applicable to Duke Energy.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric revenues, earnings and results are dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, transmission, distribution and related activities, which may limit their ability to recover costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric businesses are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to the statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures of North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. If the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric earnings exceed the returns established by the state regulatory commissions, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease the Duke Energy Registrants’ future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, the Duke Energy Registrants’ future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

If legislative and regulatory structures were to evolve in such a way that the Duke Energy Registrants’ exclusive rights to serve their franchised customers were eroded, their future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ plans for future expansion and modernization of their generation fleet subject them to risk of failure to adequately execute and manage their significant construction plans, as well as the risk of not recovering all costs or of recovering costs in an untimely manner, which could materially impact their results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

The completion of the Duke Energy Registrants’ anticipated capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities is subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards. Moreover, the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to recover all these costs and recovering costs in a timely manner could materially impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows and their utility businesses.  

Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts, including from the Energy Policy Act of 2005, could have a significant adverse financial impact on the Duke Energy Registrants and consequently on their results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Increased competition could also result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial impact on the Duke Energy Registrants due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict when they will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can they predict the impact of these changes on their financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The ability of the Duke Energy Registrants to recover significant costs resulting from severe weather events is subject to regulatory oversight, and the timing and amount of any such recovery is uncertain and may impact their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to incurring significant costs resulting from damage sustained during severe weather events. If the Duke Energy Registrants cannot recover costs associated with future severe weather events in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. 

Energy conservation could negatively impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial results.  

Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric devices or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption. To the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the Duke Energy Registrants’ unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. In the Duke Energy Registrants’ regulated operations, conservation could have a negative impact depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. The Duke Energy Registrants currently have energy-efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of energy-efficiency programs in North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio and Kentucky. Should the Duke Energy Registrants be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation that will affect their operations and costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC and various other federal agencies. Regulation affects almost every aspect of the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses, including, among other things, their ability to: take fundamental business management actions; determine the terms and rates of transmission and distribution services; make acquisitions; issue equity or debt securities; engage in transactions with other subsidiaries and affiliates; and the ability of the operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Duke Energy Registrants. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on their businesses. However, changes in regulation (including re-regulating previously deregulated markets) can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures that can increase cost of operations, and which may impact or limit business plans, or cause exposure to environmental liabilities.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of their present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require the Duke Energy Registrants to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising from contaminated properties, and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. The steps the Duke Energy Registrants could be required to take to ensure that their facilities are in compliance could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, the Duke Energy Registrants may be required to shut down or alter the operation of their facilities, which may cause the Duke Energy Registrants to incur losses. Further, the Duke Energy Registrants’ regulatory rate structure and their contracts with customers may not necessarily allow for the recovery of capital costs incurred to comply with new environmental regulations. Also, the Duke Energy Registrants may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all  

24 

PART I  

required environmental regulatory approvals for their operating assets or development projects. Delays in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, failure to obtain and comply with them or changes in environmental laws or regulations to more stringent compliance levels could result in additional costs of operation for existing facilities or development of new facilities being prevented, delayed or subject to additional costs. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect.  

The EPA has proposed new federal regulations governing the management of coal combustion by-products, including fly ash. These regulations may require the Duke Energy Registrants to make additional capital expenditures and increase operating and maintenance costs.  

Other potential new environmental regulations, limiting the use of coal acquired from mountaintop removal and imposing additional requirements on water discharges associated with mountaintop removal, could increase costs of fuel and require the Duke Energy Registrants to make additional related capital expenditures. In addition, the Duke Energy Registrants are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of their power generation facilities and natural gas assets acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and sales of assets, the Duke Energy Registrants may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If the Duke Energy Registrants incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations, the Duke Energy Registrants could suffer material losses.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ sales may decrease if they are unable to gain adequate, reliable and affordable access to transmission assets.  

The Duke Energy Registrants depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver electricity sold to the wholesale market. FERC’s power transmission regulations, as well as those of Duke Energy’s international markets, require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is inadequate, the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered.  

The different regional power markets have changing regulatory structures, which could affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ growth and performance in these regions. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the profitability of the Duke Energy Registrants’ wholesale power marketing business.  

The Duke Energy Registrants must meet credit quality standards and there is no assurance that they and their rated subsidiaries will maintain investment grade credit ratings. If the Duke Energy Registrants or their rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain investment grade credit ratings, they would be required under credit agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect their liquidity.  

Each of the Duke Energy Registrants and their rated subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by various rating agencies. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot be sure that their senior unsecured long-term debt or that of their rated subsidiaries will be rated investment grade in the future.  

If the rating agencies were to rate the Duke Energy Registrants or their rated subsidiaries below investment grade, the entities’ borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. In addition, their potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, if the Duke Energy Registrants’ short-term debt rating were to fall, access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of the Duke Energy Registrants’ subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase their need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group. A reduction in liquidity and borrowing availability could ultimately impact the ability to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its international operations, which could result in significant income taxes that would have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s results of operations. 

A downgrade below investment grade could also require the Duke Energy Registrants to post additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash under various credit agreements and trigger termination clauses in some interest rate derivative agreements, which would require cash payments. All of these events would likely reduce the Duke Energy Registrants’ liquidity and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on their financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to credit risk of the customers and counterparties with whom they do business.  

Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, customers and counterparties with whom the Duke Energy Registrants do business could impair the ability of these customers and counterparties to pay for services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including loss recovery payments under insurance contracts, or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. The Duke Energy Registrants depend on these customers and counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be negatively affected by changes in weather conditions and severe weather. 

Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In most parts of the U.S., and other markets in which Duke Energy operates, demand for power peaks during the warmer summer months, with market prices typically peaking at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks during the winter. Further, extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. As a result, in the future, the overall operating results of the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make period-to-period comparison less relevant.  

Sustained severe drought conditions could impact generation by the Duke Energy Registrants’ hydroelectric plants, as well as their fossil and nuclear plant operations, as these facilities use water for cooling purposes and for the operation of environmental compliance equipment. Furthermore, destruction caused by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, snow and ice storms, can result in lost operating revenues due to outages; property damage, including downed transmission and distribution lines; and additional and unexpected expenses to mitigate storm damage. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain. Adverse resolution of these matters could negatively affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous legal proceedings, including claims for damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen prior to 1985 from the exposure to or use of asbestos at electric generation plants of Duke Energy Carolinas. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of  

25 

PART I  

some of the matters could require additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, it is reasonably possible that the terms of resolution could require the Duke Energy Registrants to change business practices and procedures, which could also have a material effect on their financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations may be negatively affected by overall market, economic and other conditions that are beyond their control.  

Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which the Duke Energy Registrants operate and negatively influence energy operations. Declines in demand for energy as a result of economic downturns in the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric service territories will reduce overall sales and lessen cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and gas. Although the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric and gas business is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs, such as fuel under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity sold as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thus diminishing results of operations. Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges being recorded to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including goodwill, to their respective fair values.  

The Duke Energy Registrants also sell electricity into the spot market or other competitive power markets on a contractual basis. With respect to such transactions, the Duke Energy Registrants are not guaranteed any rate of return on their capital investments through mandated rates, and revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and could reduce the Duke Energy Registrants’ revenues and margins and thereby diminish their results of operations.  

Factors that could impact sales volumes, generation of electricity and market prices at which the Duke Energy Registrants’ able to sell electricity are as follows:  

· weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively, and periods of low rainfall that decrease the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to operate its facilities in an economical manner; 

· supply of and demand for energy commodities;  

· transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies which impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ non-regulated energy operations;  

· availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, which are preferred by some customers over electricity produced from coal, nuclear or gas plants, and of energy-efficient equipment which reduces energy demand;  

· natural gas, crude oil and refined products production levels and prices;  

· ability to procure satisfactory levels of inventory, such as coal, gas and uranium;  

· electric generation capacity surpluses which cause the Duke Energy Registrants’ non-regulated energy plants to generate and sell less electricity at lower prices and may cause some plants to become non-economical to operate; and  

· capacity and transmission service into, or out of, the Duke Energy Registrants’ markets.  

Coal inventory levels have increased due to mild weather, low natural gas and power prices resulting in higher combined cycle gas-fired generation, and the economy’s overall effect on load. Continuation of these factors for an extended period of time could result in additional costs of managing the coal inventory or other costs. If these costs are not recoverable the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations could be negatively impacted.  

Fluctuations in commodity prices or availability may adversely affect various aspects of the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations as well as their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to the effects of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, coal, fuel oil, nuclear fuel, electricity and other energy-related commodities, including emission allowances, as a result of their ownership of energy-related assets. Fuel costs are recovered primarily through cost-recovery clauses, subject to the approval of state utility commissions. Additionally, the Duke Energy Registrants have hedging strategies in place to mitigate fluctuations in commodity supply prices, but to the extent that these do not cover the entire exposure to commodity price fluctuations, or their hedging procedures do not work as planned, there can be no assurances that the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial performance will not be negatively impacted by price fluctuations. Additionally, the Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to risk that counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations. Should counterparties fail to perform, the Duke Energy Registrants might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at prevailing market prices possibly resulting in losses in addition to the amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. 

Certain of the Duke Energy Registrants hedge agreements may result in the receipt of, or posting of, derivative collateral with counterparties, depending on the daily derivative position. Fluctuations in commodity prices that lead to the return of collateral received and/or the posting of collateral with counterparties negatively impact our liquidity. Downgrades in the Duke Energy Registrants’ credit ratings could lead to additional collateral posting requirements. The Duke Energy Registrants continually monitor derivative positions in relation to market price activity. 

Poor investment performance of the Duke Energy pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ liquidity and results of operations.  

The costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. The Subsidiary Registrants participate in employee benefit plans sponsored by Duke Energy or Progress Energy. The Subsidiary Registrants are allocated their proportionate share of the cost and obligations related to these plans. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting costs as listed above, Duke Energy could be required to fund its plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations, and the Subsidiary Registrants’ proportionate share of such cash funding obligations, could have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions, including cyber system attacks, could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses.  

The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the U.S. and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas and oil which may have material adverse affects in ways the Duke Energy  

26 

PART I  

Registrants cannot predict at this time. In addition, future acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of action by the U.S. and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the U.S. or their international affiliates. Cyber systems, infrastructure and generation facilities such as the Duke Energy Registrants’ nuclear plants could be potential targets of terrorist activities or harmful activities by individuals or groups. The potential for terrorism has subjected the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on their businesses. In particular, the Duke Energy Registrants may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for their cyber systems and plants, including nuclear power plants under the NRC’s design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security, additional security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist incident.  

The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these potential events. As a result, the availability of insurance covering risks the Duke Energy Registrants and their competitors typically insure against may decrease. In addition, the insurance the Duke Energy Registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, lower coverage limits and more restrictive policy terms.  

Information security risks have generally increased in recent years as a result of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber attacks. Through our smart grid and other initiatives, the Duke Energy Registrants have increasingly connected equipment and systems related to the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to the Internet. Because of the critical nature of the infrastructure and the increased accessibility enabled through connection to the Internet, the Duke Energy Registrants may face a heightened risk of cyber attack. In the event of such an attack, the Duke Energy Registrants could have business operations disrupted, property damaged and customer information stolen; experience substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss; and be subject to increased regulation, litigation and damage to our reputation. 

Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Duke Energy Registrants or which they currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could unfavorably impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations.  

Certain events, such as an aging workforce, mismatch of skill set or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge base and the lengthy time required for skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the business. If the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their financial position or results of operations could be negatively affected.  

The Duke Energy Registrants rely on access to short-term borrowings and longer-term capital markets to finance their capital requirements and support their liquidity needs. Access to those markets can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond the Duke Energy Registrants’ control.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses are financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from their assets. Accordingly, as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate maturities, Duke Energy and the Subsidiary Registrants rely on access to short-term money markets as well as longer-term capital markets and the Subsidiary Registrants also rely on access to short-term intercompany borrowings. If the Duke Energy Registrants are not able to access capital at competitive rates or at all, the ability to finance their operations and implement their strategy and business plan as scheduled could be adversely affected. An inability to access capital may limit the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that they may otherwise rely on for future growth.  

Market disruptions may increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ cost of borrowing or adversely affect their ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on their facilities or unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry. The availability of credit under Duke Energy’s revolving credit facilities depends upon the ability of the banks providing commitments under such facilities to provide funds when their obligations to do so arise. Systematic risk of the banking system and the financial markets could prevent a bank from meeting its obligations under the facility agreement.  

Duke Energy maintains revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for a commercial paper program for variable rate demand tax-exempt bonds that may be put to the Duke Energy Registrant issuer at the option of the holder and certain letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include borrowing sublimits for the Subsidiary Registrants and financial covenants that limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude Duke Energy from issuing commercial paper or the Duke Energy Registrants from issuing letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, failure to comply with these financial covenants could result in Duke Energy being required to immediately pay down any outstanding amounts under other revolving credit agreements.  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose it to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks may delay or reduce Duke Energy’s realization of value from its international projects.  

Duke Energy currently owns and may acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the U.S. The economic, regulatory, market and political conditions in some of the countries where Duke Energy has interests or in which it may explore development, acquisition or investment opportunities could present risks related to, among others, Duke Energy’s ability to obtain financing on suitable terms, its customers’ ability to honor their obligations with respect to projects and investments, delays in construction, limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights, and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law, regulations, market rules or tax policy.  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose it to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. These risks, and Duke Energy’s activities to mitigate such risks, may adversely affect its cash flows and results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s operations and investments outside the U.S. expose it to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. As each local currency’s value changes relative to the U.S. dollar — Duke Energy’s principal reporting currency — the value in U.S. dollars of Duke Energy’s assets and liabilities in such locality and the cash flows generated in such locality, expressed in U.S. dollars, also change. Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real.  

Duke Energy selectively mitigates some risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations by, among other things, indexing contracts to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, hedging through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency and hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may not be effective and, in some cases, may expose Duke Energy to other risks that could negatively affect its cash flows and results of operations.  

27 

PART I  

Duke Energy’s merger with Progress Energy may not achieve its intended results.  

The merger is expected to result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to the joint dispatch of generation and combining of fuel purchasing power. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to Duke Energy’s businesses, and whether the business of Progress Energy is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs; decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy’s and Progress Energy’s ability to fully utilize tax credits may be limited. 

In accordance with the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 29/45K, Duke Energy and Progress Energy have generated tax credits based on the content and quantity of coal-based solid synthetic fuels produced and sold to unrelated parties. This tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. The timing of the utilization of the tax credits is dependent upon Duke Energy’s and Progress Energy’s taxable income. The timing of the utilization can also be impacted by certain substantial changes in ownership, including the merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Duke Energy’s and Progress Energy’s tax returns are audited by the IRS. If Duke Energy’s and Progress Energy’s tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be significant additional tax liabilities and associated interest for previously recognized tax credits, which could have a material adverse impact on Duke Energy’s and Progress Energy’s earnings and cash flows. Although Duke Energy and Progress Energy are unaware of any currently proposed legislation or new IRS regulations or interpretations impacting previously recorded synthetic fuels tax credits, the value of credits generated could be unfavorably impacted by such legislation or IRS regulations and interpretations. 

Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to their ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities.  

Ownership interest in and operation of nuclear stations by Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida subject them to various risks. These risks include, among other things: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.  

Ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities requires compliance with licensing and safety-related requirements imposed by the NRC. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by the NRC, which could be prompted by, among other things, events within or outside of Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s control, such as a serious nuclear incident at a facility owned by a third-party, could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures, as well as assessments to cover third-party losses. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s results of operations and financial condition.  

Ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities also requires the maintenance of funded trusts that are intended to pay for the decommissioning costs of the respective nuclear power plants. As discussed below, poor investment performance of these decommissioning trusts’ holdings and other factors impacting decommissioning costs could unfavorably impact Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s liquidity and results of operations as they could be required to significantly increase their cash contributions to the decommissioning trusts.  

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of Duke Energy Carolinas’, Progress Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Florida’s Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund (NDTF) investments, which then could require significant additional funding. 

The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission nuclear plants. Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida have significant obligations in this area and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected rates of return. Although a number of factors impact funding requirements, a decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations for decommissioning nuclear plants. If Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida are unable to successfully manage the NDTF assets, their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. 

The costs of retiring Progress Energy Florida’s Crystal River Unit 3 could prove to be more extensive than is currently identified. All costs associated with retirement of the Crystal River Unit 3 asset, including replacement power, may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. 

Early retirement could result in continued purchases of replacement power and/or additional capital and operating costs associated with construction of replacement capacity resources to continue to service Progress Energy Florida’s customer needs. However, there is no definitive plan for new generating capacity at this time. In addition, exit costs to wind down operations and ultimately to retire and decommission the plant could exceed estimates and, if not recoverable through the regulatory process, could adversely affect Duke Energy’s, Progress Energy’s and Progress Energy Florida’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

While the foregoing reflects Progress Energy Florida’s current intentions and estimates with respect to the retirement of Crystal River Unit 3, the cost of replacement power, and the degree of recoverability of these costs, are all subject to significant uncertainties. Additional developments with respect to Crystal River Unit 3, costs that are greater than anticipated and recoverability that is less than anticipated could adversely affect Duke Energy’s, Progress Energy’s and Progress Energy Florida’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s and Duke Energy Indiana’s membership in a RTO presents risks that could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

The price at which Duke Energy Ohio can sell its generation capacity and energy is dependent on a number of factors, which include the overall supply and demand of generation and load, other state legislation or regulation, transmission congestion, and its business rules. As a result, the prices in day–ahead and real–time energy markets and RTO capacity markets are subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, are also subject to volatility. PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) conducts Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) base residual auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. The results of the PJM RPM base residual auction are impacted by the supply and demand of generation and load and also may be impacted by congestion and PJM rules relating to bidding for Demand Response and Energy Efficiency resources. Auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted.  

28 

PART I  

The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change, which could affect Duke Energy Ohio’s and Duke Energy Indiana’s costs and/or revenues. To the degree Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, their results of operations may be impacted. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may be required to expand their transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than their own internal planning process. While RTO transmission rates were initially designed to be revenue neutral, various proposals and proceedings currently taking place by the FERC may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. In addition, RTOs has been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may also incur fees and costs to participate in RTOs.  

As a members of an RTO, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among RTO members, of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in the RTO markets and those associated with complaint cases filed against an RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by RTO members, including Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None. 

29 

PART I  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

30 

PART I  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

31 

PART I  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

32 

PART I  

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS