ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

DUKE ENERGY  

General. Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Carolina Power & Light Company d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. (Progress Energy Carolinas), Florida Power Corporation d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. (Progress Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in Latin America through Duke Energy International, LLC (DEI). When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its six separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants. The financial information for Progress Energy, Progress Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Florida includes results after July 2, 2012. 

Duke Energy is a Delaware corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 550 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy Carolinas is a North Carolina limited liability company. Its principal executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Progress Energy and Progress Energy Carolinas are North Carolina corporations. Their principal executive offices are located at 410 South Wilmington Street, Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-1748. Progress Energy Florida is a Florida corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 299 First Avenue North, St. Petersburg, Florida 33701. Duke Energy Ohio is an Ohio corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 139 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. Duke Energy Indiana is an Indiana corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1000 East Main Street, Plainfield, Indiana 46168.  

The telephone number for the Duke Energy Registrants is 704-382-3853. The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.  

The public may read and copy any materials that the Duke Energy Registrants file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including its reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s website at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge through Duke Energy’s website and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

Merger with Progress Energy. On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy completed the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement), among Duke Energy, Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation engaged in the regulated utility business of generation, transmission and distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. As a result of the merger, Merger Sub was merged into Progress Energy and Progress Energy became a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. 

The merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy provides increased scale and diversity with potentially enhanced access to capital over the long term and a greater ability to undertake the significant construction programs necessary to respond to increasing environmental regulation, plant retirements and customer demand growth. Duke Energy’s business risk profile is expected to improve over time due to the increased proportion of the business that is regulated. Additionally, cost savings, efficiencies and other benefits are expected from the combined operations. 

Immediately preceding the merger, Duke Energy completed a one-for-three reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding shares of Duke Energy common stock. The shareholders of Duke Energy approved the reverse stock split at Duke Energy’s special meeting of shareholders held on August 23, 2011. All share and per share amounts presented within the Form 10-K reflect the impact of the one-for-three reverse stock split. 

Progress Energy’s shareholders received 0.87083 shares of Duke Energy common stock in exchange for each share of Progress Energy common stock outstanding as of July 2, 2012. Generally, all outstanding Progress Energy equity-based compensation awards were converted into Duke Energy equity-based compensation awards using the same ratio. The merger was structured as a tax-free exchange of shares. 

For additional information on the details of this transaction including regulatory conditions and accounting implications, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.” 

Duke Energy Business Segments. Duke Energy conducts its operations in the following business segments, all of which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules: U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G), Commercial Power and International Energy. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations are presented as Other. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other. (For more information on the operating outlook of Duke Energy and its reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Introduction — Executive Overview and Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business.”  

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS   

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G) generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in most portions of North Carolina, northern South Carolina, central, north central and southern Indiana, west central Florida, and northern Kentucky. USFE&G also transmits, distributes and sells electricity in southwestern Ohio. Additionally, USFE&G transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana, and the regulated transmission and distribution operations of Duke Energy Ohio (Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio are collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest). These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC). The substantial majority of USFE&G’s operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. 

PART I  

USFE&G supplies electric service to 7.2 million residential, general service and industrial customers. Its service area covers approximately 104,000 square miles with an estimated population of 22 million. USFE&G provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load serving entities. 

Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Carolinas’ service areas share a diversified economy that is driven by service, manufacturing and government related output and jobs. Sales to general service customers, which include both service and government sectors, represent approximately one third of total retail sales and the main segments include health care, education, financial services, information technology and military buildings. Sales to industrial customers represent a little less than one third of total retail sales and key sectors are textiles, chemicals, rubber and plastics, paper, food & beverage and auto manufacturing.  

Progress Energy Florida’s service area has a strong base of residential customers and lower percentages of general service and industrial customers relative to the other Duke Energy utilities’ states. Sales to general service customers, which include both service and government sectors, represent approximately 40% of total retail sales; the largest service segments include tourism, heath care and agriculture. Sales to industrial customers represent only around 10% of total retail sales and main sectors include phosphate rock mining and processing, electronics design and manufacturing, and citrus and other food processing. 

Duke Energy Indiana’s service area is characterized by a strong presence of manufacturing activity. Sales to industrial customers represent around 40% of total retail volumes; the larger segments within the industrial class include primary metals, transportation equipment, building materials, food & beverage and chemicals. Sales to general service customers represent approximately 30% of total retail and the largest contributors to general service sales include retail, financial, health care and education services.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s service area has a diversified economy that is driven by primarily by the services sector. The contribution of manufacturing to the regional economy is lower relative to Indiana and the Carolinas’ service territories. Sales to general service customers, which include both service and government sectors, represent approximately 40% of total retail sales and the main segments include healthcare, education, real estate and rental leasing, financial & insurance services and wholesale trade services. Sales to industrial customers represent approximately one fourth of total retail sales and key industries are aerospace, primary metals, chemicals and food.  

The number of residential, general service and industrial customers within the USFE&G service territory, as well as sales to these customers, is expected to increase over time. However, growth in the near-term is being hampered by the current economic conditions. While total industrial sales increased in 2012 when compared to 2011, the growth rate was modest when compared to historical periods.  

Seasonality and the Impact of Weather  

USFE&G’s costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows during those periods. By contrast, fewer sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance during those periods. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months. Residential and general service customers are most impacted by weather. Industrial customers are less weather sensitive. Estimated weather impacts are based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions, with normal weather conditions defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions. 

The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers, temperature variances from a normal condition and customers’ historic usage levels and patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not and cannot consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity and relative temperature changes. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter term periods. 

Degree-day data are used to estimate the energy required to maintain comfortable indoor temperatures based on each day’s average temperature. Heating-degree days measure the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature falls below a base temperature, and cooling-degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below the base temperature counts as one heating-degree day and each degree of temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling-degree day. 

Competition  

Retail. USFE&G’s regulated utility businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within their service territories. USFE&G owns and operates all of the businesses and facilities necessary to generate, transmit and distribute electricity. Services are priced by state commission approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices. USFE&G’s competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the on-site generation of industrial customers. 

USFE&G is not aware of any enacted or proposed legislation in North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Kentucky or Indiana that would give its retail customers the right to choose their electricity provider or otherwise restructure or deregulate the electric industry. However, USFE&G competes with suppliers of other forms of energy in connection with their retail customers.  

Although there is no pending legislation at this time, if the retail jurisdictions served by USFE&G become subject to deregulation, the recovery of “stranded costs” could become a significant consideration. Stranded costs primarily include the generation assets of USFE&G’s regulated utilities whose value in a competitive marketplace would be less than their current book value, as well as above-market purchased power commitments to qualified facilities (QFs). QFs are typically small power production facilities that generate power within a utility company’s service territory for which the utility companies are legally obligated to purchase the energy of these facilities at an avoided cost rate. Thus far, all states that have passed restructuring legislation have provided for the opportunity to recover a substantial portion of stranded costs.  

USFE&G’s largest stranded cost exposure is primarily related to Progress Energy Florida’s purchased power commitments with QFs, under which it has future minimum expected capacity payments through 2025 of $3.8 billion. Progress Energy Florida was obligated to enter into these contracts under provisions of the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. Progress Energy Florida continues to seek ways to address the impact of escalating payments under these contracts. However, the FPSC allows full recovery of the retail portion of the cost of power purchased from QFs. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information related these purchased power commitments. 

Wholesale. USFE&G competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales and for sales to municipalities and cooperatives. USFE&G also competes with other utilities and marketers in the wholesale electric business. The principal factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity and power and reliability of service. Wholesale electric prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs. 

10 

PART I  

Increased competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of transmission access could affect USFE&G’s load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to sell to the wholesale market and the ability of USFE&G to attract new wholesale customers and to retain current wholesale customers. 

Energy Capacity and Resources   

USFE&G owns over 50,000 megawatts of generation capacity. For additional information on USFE&G’s generation facilities, see “U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas” in

 Item 2.“Properties.”