Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Product Marketplace and Operational Risks:  

The insurance industry is a mature, regulated industry, populated by many firms. Torchmark operates in the life and health insurance sections of the insurance industry, each with its own set of risks.  

Life Insurance Marketplace Risk:  

The life insurance industry is highly competitive and could limit Torchmark’s ability to gain or maintain market share. Competition by product price and for market share is generally strong in the life insurance industry, but is less so in Torchmark’s life insurance niche markets. In recent years, most life insurers have targeted the smaller, highly competitive, higher-income market by offering asset accumulation products. Torchmark’s market has remained the middle income market, offering individually-sold protection life insurance, which is less competitive because the market is larger with fewer competing insurers and with less price sensitivity than the higher income, asset accumulation marketplace.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Torchmark’s life insurance markets are subject to risks of general economic conditions. Because Torchmark serves the middle income market for individual protection life insurance, competition is primarily from alternative uses of the customer’s disposable income. In times of economic downturns that affect employment levels, potential customers may be less likely to buy policies and policyholders may fail to pay premiums.  

Torchmark’s life products are sold in selected niche markets. The Company is at risk should any of these markets diminish. Torchmark has two life distribution channels that focus on distinct market niches: labor union members and sales via direct response distribution. The contraction of the size of either market could adversely affect sales. In recent years, labor union membership has grown little and has declined as a percentage of employed workers; however, Torchmark’s union-member policyholders are still a small portion of total union membership, indicating that sales growth can continue for some time without growth in total union membership. Most of the Company’s direct response business is either through direct mail solicitation or inserted into other mail media for distribution. Significant adverse changes in postage cost or the acceptance of unsolicited marketing mail by consumers could negatively affect this business.  

The development and maintenance of Torchmark’s various distribution systems are critical to growth in product sales. Because the Company’s life insurance sales are primarily made to individuals, rather than groups, and the face amounts sold are lower than that of policies sold in the higher income market, the development, maintenance and retention of adequate numbers of producing agents and direct response systems to support growth of sales in this market are critical. For agents, adequate compensation that is competitive with other employment opportunities, and that also motivates them to increase sales is very important. In direct response, continuous development of new offerings and cost efficiency are key. Less than optimum execution of these strategies will in time lead to less than optimum growth in sales and ultimately in profits.  

Health Insurance marketplace risk:  

Congress could make changes to the Medicare program which could impact Torchmark’s Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance business. Medicare Supplement insurance constitutes a significant portion of Torchmark’s in force health insurance business. Because of increasing medical cost inflation and concerns about the solvency of the Medicare program, it is possible that changes will be made to the Medicare program by Congress in the future. These changes could have either a positive or negative effect on that business. In 2006, Congress first provided prescription drug coverage (Medicare Part D) to Medicare beneficiaries. Changes are likely to be made to the program over the next several years as the acceptance and costs of the program become clear. Some of these changes might adversely affect Torchmark’s ability to profit from its Medicare Part D sales or the level of risk involved.  

Torchmark’s Medicare Supplement business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers. The Medicare Supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged health care industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other managed care or private plans. The success of these alternative businesses could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare supplement insurance.  

Torchmark’s Medicare Supplement business is subject to intense competition primarily on the basis of price which could restrict future sales. In recent years, price competition in the traditional Medicare supplement market has been significant, characterized by some insurers who have been willing to earn very small profit margins or to under price new sales in order to gain market share. Torchmark believes these practices are not in the best interest of the Company or consumers and has elected not to compete on those terms, which has negatively affected sales. Should these industry practices continue, it is likely that Torchmark’s sales of this health product will remain depressed.  

Torchmark’s health business is at risk in the event of government-sponsored under-age-65 health insurance. Currently, Torchmark’s leading health sales are from limited benefit products sold to people under age 65. These products are in demand when buyers are either self employed or their   

6  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 employers offer limited or no health insurance to employees. If in the future the government offers comprehensive health care to people under age 65, demand for this product would likely decline. However, any government plan might provide beneficial opportunities if the plan includes the insurance industry as providers. Given the high cost and political challenges of such a program, Torchmark believes this is a low-level risk in the foreseeable future.  

General Operating Risk:  

Changes in mortality, economic conditions, or other market conditions could significantly affect our operation and profitability. The Company’s insurance contracts are affected by the levels of mortality, morbidity, persistency, and healthcare utilization that we experience. The resulting levels that occur may differ significantly from the levels assumed when premium rates were first set. Significant variations in these levels could negatively affect profit margins and income. However, the Company’s actuaries continually test expected to actual results.   

Torchmark’s ability to pay dividends or service any of its debt or preferred securities is limited by the amounts its subsidiaries are able to pay to the holding company. Torchmark’s insurance company subsidiaries, its principal sources of cash flow, periodically declare and distribute dividends on their common and preferred stock held by Torchmark, the holding company. Torchmark’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock, principal and interest on any debt security, or dividends on any preferred stock security is affected by the ability of its subsidiaries to pay the holding company these dividends. The insurance company subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions, applicable to insurance companies, that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans, and advances that those subsidiaries may pay to the holding company. For example, under certain state insurance laws, an insurance company generally may pay dividends only out of its unassigned surplus as reflected in its statutory financial statements filed in that state. Additionally, dividends paid by insurance subsidiaries are generally limited to the greater of statutory net gain from operations, excluding capital gains and losses, or 10% of statutory surplus without regulatory approval.  

Torchmark can give no assurance that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by states in which its insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which could, under certain circumstances, significantly reduce dividends or other amounts paid to Torchmark by its subsidiaries. Additionally, the inability to obtain approval of the previously mentioned premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities could adversely impact the profitability, and thus the ability of Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries to declare and distribute dividends.  

A ratings downgrade could negatively affect Torchmark’s ability to compete. Ratings are a factor in Torchmark’s competitive position. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. While ratings are less important in the middle-income market than in markets focused on higher incomes or the group market, a downgrade in the ratings of Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries could slightly affect the ability of the subsidiaries to market their products.  

Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the considered factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of the Company’s control.  

Investment Risk:  

The Company’s investments are subject to market risks. Torchmark’s invested assets are subject to the customary risks of defaults, downgrades, and changes in market values. Factors that may affect these risks include interest rate levels, financial market performance, and general economic conditions, as well as particular circumstances affecting the businesses or industries of individual issuers. Some of these factors could result in write-downs of individual investments. Significant increases in interest rates could cause a material temporary decline in the fair value of the fixed investment portfolio, reflecting unrealized fair value losses. This risk is mitigated by Torchmark’s operating strategy to generally hold investments to maturity recognizing the long-term nature of the life policy reserve liabilities supported by investments and by Torchmark’s strong operating cash flow that greatly diminishes the need to liquidate investments prior to maturity.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

A decline in interest rates could negatively affect income. Declines in interest rates expose insurance companies to the risk of not earning anticipated spreads between the interest rate earned on investments and the rates credited to the net policy liabilities. While Torchmark attempts to manage its investments to preserve the excess investment income spread, the Company can give no assurance that a significant and persistent decline in interest rates will not materially affect such spreads.  

Significant decreases in interest rates could result in calls by issuers of investments, where such features are available to issuers. These calls could result in a decline in the Company’s investment income as reinvestment of the proceeds would likely be at lower rates.  

Regulatory risk:  

Regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. Insurance companies are subject to government regulation in each of the states in which they conduct business. State agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital adequacy, and permitted investments. Government regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than our shareholders. Insurance laws, regulations, and policies currently affecting Torchmark and its subsidiaries may change at any time, possibly having an adverse effect on its business. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory initiatives.  

Changes in taxation could negatively affect our income. Changes in the way the insurance industry is taxed or increases in tax rates could increase the Company’s tax burden and negatively affect its income.  

Litigation risk:  

Litigation could result in substantial judgments against the Company or its subsidiaries. A number of civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers in the jurisdictions in which Torchmark does business involving the insurers’ sales practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly supervise agents, and other matters. These lawsuits have resulted in the award of substantial judgments against insurers that are disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive damages. In some states, including Alabama and Mississippi, juries have substantial discretion in awarding punitive damages. This discretion creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments in any given punitive damages suit. Torchmark, like other insurers, is involved in this type of litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty.  

Natural disaster risk:  

Torchmark’s business is subject to risk of a catastrophic event. The marketplaces of Torchmark’s major subsidiaries are national in scope. Because the Company’s insurance policies in force are relatively low-face amounts issued to large numbers of policyholders throughout the country, the likelihood that a large portion of the Company’s policyholder base would be affected by a natural disaster is not likely. As a result, it is unlikely that even a major natural disaster covering hundreds of miles would disrupt the marketing and premium collection in more than a small portion of Torchmark’s markets. In addition, the administration of the four leading subsidiaries is conducted in three distant locations that allow the company to take advantage of those distances to plan back-up administrative support for any one of the subsidiaries in the event of disaster. The Company also has outside contracts for off-site backup information systems and record keeping in the event of a disaster.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

As of December 31, 2007, Torchmark had no unresolved staff comments.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 Item 2. Properties