PART I 

     Item 1. Business. 

 CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") is a mass media company with operations in the following segments:   

•ENTERTAINMENT: The Entertainment segment is composed of the  CBS® Television Network; CBS Television Studios; CBS Global Distribution Group (composed of CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution); CBS Films®; and CBS Interactive.  

•CABLE NETWORKS: The Cable Networks segment is composed of  Showtime® Networks, the Company's premium subscription program services; CBS Sports Network®, the Company's cable network focused on college athletics and other sports; and Smithsonian Networks™, a venture between Showtime Networks and Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel™, a basic cable program service.   

•PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment is composed of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books under imprints such as Simon & Schuster®, Pocket Books®, Scribner® and Atria Books®. 

•LOCAL BROADCASTING: The Local Broadcasting segment is composed of CBS Television Stations, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations; and CBS Radio®, through which the Company owns and operates 126 radio stations in 27 United States ("U.S.") markets.  

•OUTDOOR AMERICAS: The Outdoor Americas segment provides space for advertisers on out-of-home advertising structures and sites in the U.S., Canada and Latin America, including billboards, rail, subway cars, buses, benches, trains, trams, transit shelters, urban panels, street kiosks, transit platforms and in retail stores, and operates principally through CBS Outdoor®. As part of the Company's strategic initiatives for its outdoor advertising business, the Company plans to separate such business and convert it into a real estate investment trust, subject to approvals and as further described below.   

 For the year ended December 31, 2013, contributions to the Company's consolidated revenues from its segments were as follows: Entertainment 57%, Cable Networks 14%, Publishing 5%, Local Broadcasting 18% and Outdoor Americas 9%. The Company generated approximately 13% of its total revenues from international regions in 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 49% and 18% of total international revenues of approximately $1.99 billion were generated in Europe and Canada, respectively.  

 The Company operates businesses which span the media and entertainment industries, including the CBS Television Network, cable program services, television content production and distribution, motion pictures, consumer publishing, television and radio stations, interactive media, and outdoor advertising, with a focus on optimizing the performance of each and establishing synergies and efficiencies among them. The Company's principal strategy is to create and acquire content that is widely accepted by audiences, and generate both advertising and non-advertising revenues from the distribution of this content on multiple media platforms and to various geographic locations. The Company also continues to pursue opportunities to grow and diversify its revenue streams, including licensing its content for exhibition on digital and other platforms; expanding the distribution of its content internationally; securing compensation from multichannel video programming distributors ("MVPDs"), including cable, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS"), telephone company, and other distributors, for authorizing the MVPDs' carriage of the Company's owned television stations (also known as "retransmission fees") and cable networks, and securing compensation from television stations affiliated with the CBS Television Network ("network affiliation fees" also known as "reverse compensation"); and increasingly monetizing content viewership and ratings as industry measurements evolve to reflect changing viewership habits.  

I-1 

 During 2013, the Company announced its intention to separate its Outdoor Americas business and, subject to receiving a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), convert it into a real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Subject to market conditions and customary approvals, CBS Outdoor Americas Inc., a subsidiary of the Company which holds the Outdoor Americas business ("CBS Outdoor Americas Inc."), expects to sell up to 20% of its common stock through an initial public offering ("IPO") during the first quarter of 2014. At a time subsequent to the IPO, the Company intends to dispose of the remaining shares of CBS Outdoor Americas Inc. that it will own after completion of the IPO. In addition, on September 30, 2013, the Company completed the sale of its outdoor advertising business in Europe, which included an interest in an outdoor business in Asia ("Outdoor Europe"). Outdoor Europe has been presented as a discontinued operation in the Company's consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.  

 The Company competes with many different entities and media in various markets worldwide. In addition to competition in each of its businesses, the Company competes for opportunities in the entertainment business with other diversified entertainment companies such as The Walt Disney Company, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (formerly known as News Corporation), Time Warner Inc., Cumulus Media Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc.  

 As of December 31, 2013, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held corporation that owns and operates approximately 947 movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and South America and manages 4 movie screens in South America, directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.6% of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 6.7% of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. Owners of the Company's Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. The Company's Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder of the Company.  

 The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986. The Company's principal offices are located at 51 W. 52nd Street, New York, New York 10019. Its telephone number is (212) 975-4321 and its Website address is www.cbscorporation.com.  

 CBS CORP. BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

 Entertainment (57%, 55% and 55% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 49%, 46% and 47% of the Company's consolidated operating income in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively)  

 The Entertainment segment consists of the CBS Television Network; CBS Television Studios and CBS Global Distribution Group (composed of CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution), the Company's television production and syndication operations; CBS Films, the Company's producer and distributor of theatrical motion pictures; and CBS Interactive, the Company's online content networks for information and entertainment.  

 Television Network. The CBS Television Network through CBS Entertainment™, CBS News® and CBS Sports® distributes a comprehensive schedule of news and public affairs broadcasts, sports and entertainment programming to more than 200 domestic affiliates reaching throughout the U.S., including 16 of the Company's owned and operated television stations, and to affiliated stations in certain U.S. territories.  

 The CBS Television Network primarily derives revenues from the sales of advertising time for its network broadcasts. A significant portion of the advertising spots sold for the network's non-sports programming occurs annually generally during May through July in the industry's upfront advertising market for the upcoming television broadcast season, which runs for one year commencing in  

I-2 

late-September. Advertisers purchase the remaining advertising spots closer to the broadcast of the related programming in the scatter advertising market. Overall advertising revenue for the network is also impacted by audience ratings for its programming. In addition, the CBS Television Network's revenues include network affiliation fees.  

 CBS Entertainment is responsible for acquiring or developing and scheduling the entertainment programming presented on the CBS Television Network, which includes primetime comedy and drama series, reality-based programming, specials, children's programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late-night programs. CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Television Network and the CBS Radio Network™ with regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes®, 48 Hours Mystery®, CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley™,  CBS This Morning®, CBS Sunday Morning® and Face the Nation® as well as special reports. CBS News also provides CBS Newspath®, a television news syndication service that offers daily news coverage, sports highlights and news features to the CBS Television Network affiliates and other subscribers worldwide. CBS Sports broadcasts include The NFL Today, certain games from the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament, the PGA Golf Tour, Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, the U.S. Open Tennis Championships, regular-season college football and basketball games on network television, in addition to the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC) regular-season, post-season divisional playoff and championship games. CBS Sports broadcast the AFC through the 2013 season, including the broadcast of the 2013 Super Bowl. In December 2011, CBS extended its rights with the NFL to broadcast the AFC from the 2014 season through the 2022 season, including certain National Football Conference regular season games and the Super Bowls in 2016, 2019 and 2022. In February 2014, the Company announced an agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast Thursday Night Football for the 2014 season. CBS Home Entertainment licenses home video rights and CBS Consumer Products licenses merchandising rights.  

 The CW, a broadcast network and the Company's 50/50 joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, airs programming, including, The Vampire Diaries, Beauty and the Beast, Reign and America's Next Top Model. Eight of the Company's owned television stations are affiliates of The CW. Certain of The CW's programming is streamed on video-on-demand services owned by each of Hulu, LLC and Netflix, Inc. pursuant to license agreements.  

 Television Production and Syndication. The Company, through CBS Television Studios and CBS Global Distribution Group (composed of CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution), produces, acquires and/or distributes programming worldwide, including series, specials, news and public affairs. Such programming is produced primarily for broadcast on network television, exhibition on basic cable and premium subscription services or distribution via first-run syndication. First-run syndication is programming exhibited on television stations without prior exhibition on a network or cable service. The Company subsequently distributes programming after its initial exhibition on a network, basic cable network or premium subscription service for domestic exhibition on television stations, cable networks or video-on-demand services (known as "off-network syndicated programming"). Off-network syndicated programming, first-run syndicated programming and programming distributed internationally can sometimes be sold in successive cycles of sales known as "first cycle," "second cycle," sales, and so on, which may occur on exclusive or non-exclusive bases. Generally, license fees may decrease with successive sales cycles due to increased program exhibitions.  

 Programming that was produced or co-produced by the Company's production group and is broadcast on network television includes, among others, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (CBS), NCIS (CBS), The Good Wife (CBS) and  Beauty and the Beast (The CW). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for broadcast on the network in the U.S. during a license period. Remaining distribution rights, including international and/or off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by the Company or, in the case of co-productions, distribution rights are shared with the co-producer for U.S. or international markets. The network license fee for a series episode is normally lower than the costs of producing the episode; however, the Company's objective is to recoup its costs and earn a profit through various forms of  

I-3 

distribution, including international and domestic syndication and digital streaming of episodes. International sales are generally made within one year of the U.S. network run. Generally, a series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic off-network syndication. In off-network syndication, the Company distributes series such as  CSI:, CSI: Miami, CSI: NY, Criminal Minds, NCIS and NCIS: Los Angeles as well as a library of older television programs. The Company also produces and/or distributes first-run syndicated series such as Wheel of Fortune, Jeopardy!, Entertainment Tonight, Inside Edition, The Insider, Dr. Phil, Rachael Ray and Judge Judy. The Company also distributes syndicated and other programming internationally.  

 In furtherance of the Company's efforts to monetize its content through digital media, the Company enters into numerous multi-year licensing agreements for distribution of certain of its programming to various services, including the digital streaming on subscription video-on-demand services owned by Netflix (in the U.S., Canada, countries in Europe and Latin America), Amazon (in the U.S., Germany and the U.K.), Comcast, Hulu (each, in the U.S.), Hulu Plus (in the U.S. and Japan), and DLA (in countries in Latin America and the Caribbean), among others; and the digital downloading on various electronic-sell-through services owned by Apple (in the U.S., Canada, Australia and countries in Europe), Amazon, Google and Microsoft (each, in the U.S.), among others.  

 Fees for television programming licensed for syndication and digital streaming are recorded as revenues at the beginning of the license period in which the programs are made available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuations in the Entertainment segment's operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such license agreements were $1.14 billion and $1.31 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  

 The Company continues to expand its global channel presence through domestic and international joint ventures. During the first quarter of 2013, the Company acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture with Lionsgate, which owns and operates the entertainment cable network, TVGN (TV Guide Network). The Company also acquired a 20% interest in a joint venture, which owns and operates AXS TV, a television channel exhibiting music programming, festivals, special events and other programming in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean. The Company owns a 49% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of AMC Networks Inc., which owns and operates six cable and satellite channels in the U.K. and Ireland, including CBS Action™, CBS Drama™ and CBS Reality™. The Company also owns a 30% interest in a joint venture with another subsidiary of AMC Networks, which owns and operates nine cable and satellite channels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa broadcasting CBS programming and branded as CBS Action™, CBS Drama™, CBS Reality™ or  CBS Europa™. In Australia, the Company owns an approximately 33% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of Ten Network Holdings Limited to provide content to ELEVEN™, a digital television channel service. In August 2013, the Company acquired a 30% interest in a joint venture with RTL Group to launch two cable channels in South East Asia in English and local languages, the first of which, RTL CBS Entertainment™, launched in September 2013.  

 CBS Films. CBS Films produces, acquires and distributes theatrical motion pictures across all genres. The budget for each picture is intended to be up to $50 million plus advertising and marketing costs at a level consistent with industry custom. The majority of motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films is intended for a wide, commercial theatrical release, similar to motion pictures typically produced and released by major studios. CBS Films' theatrical releases in 2013 were The Last Exorcism Part II, The Kings of Summer, The To Do List, Last Vegas and Inside Llewyn Davis.  

 In general, motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films are exhibited theatrically in the U.S. and internationally, followed by exploitation via home entertainment (including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs and electronic rental and sell-through), video-on-demand, pay-per-view, pay television, free television and basic cable, digital media outlets and, in some cases, other channels such as airlines and hotels. CBS Films exploits its motion pictures (including certain ancillary rights, such as licensing and merchandising) and  

I-4 

generates revenues in all media in the relevant release windows either directly, through affiliated CBS entities, or via third party distribution arrangements.  

 CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive is one of the leading global publishers of premium content on the Internet. CBS Interactive was ranked among the top Internet properties in the world according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2013. CBS Interactive's leading brands, including CNET,  CBS.com, CBSSports.com, GameSpot,  TVGuide.com, TV.com, CBSNews.com, ZDNet, Last.fm, and  MetroLyrics.com, among others, serve targeted audiences with text, video, audio, and mobile content spanning technology, entertainment, sports, news, business, gaming and music categories. In addition to its U.S.-based business, CBS Interactive operates in Asia, Australia and Europe. CBS Interactive's worldwide brands reached approximately 283 million unique monthly visitors during December 2013 according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2013.  

 CBS Interactive generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising and sponsorships, in addition to fees derived from search and commerce partners, licensing fees, subscriptions, e-commerce activities, and other paid services. Advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic conditions. In addition, online marketing spending follows seasonal consumer behavior throughout the calendar year to reflect trends during the calendar year.  

 CNET.com is one of the preeminent Websites for technology and consumer electronics information and features news, reviews, downloads and instructional and entertaining video and audio shows about technology. In September 2013, the Company launched CNET en Espanol, which delivers CNET.com's information in the U.S. to Spanish speakers.  TVGuide.com and its mobile properties, which were wholly acquired by the Company in May 2013, provide comprehensive information about television programming. GameSpot is a leading gaming information Website providing video game reviews and previews, news, eSports, Webcasts, videos, and game downloads. CBSSports.com provides sports content, fantasy sports, community and e-commerce features, and also owns and operates  MaxPreps.com. Last.fm is a music recommendation, discovery and social networking site, and MetroLyrics.com is one of the most popular databases for song lyrics online. TV.com is a destination for entertainment and community around television where visitors can watch videos and discuss and obtain information about television shows across all networks. CBS Interactive also operates  CBS.com, the online destination for CBS Television Network programming. Further extending the CBS.com experience, during 2013, the Company launched a CBS App offering streaming of various programs from the Company's current network programming and library to Android, iPhone, iPad and Windows 8 users. Through the CBS Audience Network™, the Company delivers video content from its Websites and television, radio and affiliated stations under an advertiser-supported distribution model. The growing slate of the Company's content available online includes full episodes, clips and highlights based on CBS, CBS Sports Network and Showtime Networks programming as well as original made-for-the-Web content.   

 Entertainment Competition.   

 Television Network. The television broadcast environment is highly competitive. The principal methods of competition in broadcast television are the development and acquisition of popular programming and the development of audience interest through programming and promotion, in order to sell advertising at profitable rates. Broadcast networks like CBS compete for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other broadcast networks such as ABC, FOX, NBC, The CW and MyNetworkTV, independent television stations, cable program services as well as other media, including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, print and the Internet. In addition, the CBS Television Network competes with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.  

I-5 

 Television Production and Syndication. As a producer and distributor of programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups, and independent producers and syndicators such as Disney, Fox, NBCUniversal, Sony and Warner Bros. to produce and sell programming both domestically and overseas. The Company also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties which are essential to the success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.  

 CBS Films. Motion picture production and distribution is a highly competitive business. During the life cycle of the development and production of a motion picture project, CBS Films must compete for the rights to compelling underlying source material and talent such as writers, producers, directors, on-screen performers and other creative personnel. CBS Films must also compete with other buyers for the acquisition of third-party produced motion pictures. Once a motion picture is completed or acquired, CBS Films must compete with numerous other motion pictures produced and/or distributed by various studios and independent producers including Paramount Pictures Corporation, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., Lions Gate Entertainment, The Weinstein Company, Relativity Media, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. and Lakeshore Entertainment Group, among others, for audience acceptance as well as limited exhibition outlets across all of the relevant release windows. In addition, the ultimate consumer has many options for entertainment other than motion pictures including video games, sports, travel, outdoor recreation, the Internet, and other cultural and computer-related activities.  

 CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive competes with a variety of online properties for users, advertisers, and partners, including the following: general purpose portals such as AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, especially as these properties expand their content offerings; search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing; online comparison shopping and retail properties, including Amazon.com; vertical content sites in the categories that CBS Interactive's brands serve, such as technology, gaming, music, news, business, food, and lifestyle focused Websites; other content sites such as Hulu, HBO GO and ESPN.com as well as major television broadcast company websites; and platforms such as blogs, podcasts and video properties. CBS Interactive also competes for users and advertisers with diversified media companies that provide both online and offline content, including magazines, cable television, network television, radio and newspapers.  

 Cable Networks (14%, 13% and 12% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 27%, 26% and 26% of the Company's consolidated operating income in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively)  

 The Cable Networks segment is composed of Showtime Networks, the Company's premium subscription program services;  CBS Sports Network, the Company's cable network focused on college athletics and other sports; and Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel.  

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks owns and operates three commercial-free, premium subscription program services in the U.S.:  Showtime, offering recently released theatrical feature films, original series, documentaries, boxing and other sports-related programming, and special events; The Movie Channel®, offering recently released theatrical feature films and related programming; and  Flix®, offering theatrical feature films primarily from the last several decades, as well as selected other titles. At December 31, 2013, Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix, in the aggregate, had approximately 76 million subscriptions in the U.S., certain U.S. territories and Bermuda.  

 Showtime Networks also owns and operates multiplexed channels of Showtime and The Movie Channel in the U.S. which offer additional and varied programming choices. In addition, Showtime Networks transmits high definition feeds of Showtime, The Movie Channel and many of their multiplexed channels, and also makes versions of Showtime, The Movie Channel and  Flix available "on demand," enabling subscribers to watch selected individual programs at their convenience (in both standard and high definition in the case of Showtime and The Movie Channel, and standard definition in the case of  Flix).  

I-6 

Showtime Networks also makes available Showtime Anytime®, an authenticated version of  Showtime, which can be accessed on computers via showtimeanytime.com or via certain portable devices through a Showtime Anytime software application or "app" free of charge to Showtime subscribers as part of their Showtime subscription through participating Showtime Networks' distributors. Through Showtime Anytime, Showtime subscribers can view hundreds of hours of on demand programming as well as live telecasts of the east and west coast feeds of Showtime. Showtime Networks additionally operates the Website SHO.com and various apps, which promote Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix programming, and provide information and entertainment and other services.  

 Showtime Networks derives revenue principally from the license of its program services to numerous MVPDs, with a substantial portion of such revenue coming from three of the largest such distributors. The costs of acquiring exhibition rights to programming and producing original series are the principal expenses of Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on acquiring exclusive rights for Showtime and The Movie Channel, from major or independent motion picture studios and other distributors typically covering the U.S. and Bermuda for varying durations, including exclusive motion picture output agreements with CBS Films, Buena Vista Pay Television, a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company (for certain DreamWorks motion pictures), The Weinstein Company and Open Road Films. Showtime Networks' original series in 2013 included Homeland, Dexter®, Ray Donovan, Masters of Sex, Shameless, Nurse Jackie, House of Lies and Episodes, among others. Showtime Networks also telecasts various sports-related programs, including Inside the NFL, 60 Minutes Sports and  Jim Rome on Showtime. Showtime Networks has entered into and may from time to time enter into co-financing, co-production and/or distribution arrangements with other parties to reduce the net cost to Showtime Networks for its original programming. In addition, Showtime Networks derives revenue by licensing rights it retains in certain of its original programming. For example, Showtime Networks and its corporate affiliate(s) have entered into licenses with television networks in various territories for exhibition of certain original series, as well as licensing arrangements with several Internet distributors, including Netflix, iTunes and Amazon, among others, for certain Showtime programming, such as Dexter. Showtime Networks also produces and/or provides special events to licensees on a pay-per-view basis through  Showtime PPV®. In 2013, Showtime Networks entered into an agreement to produce and distribute up to six Floyd Mayweather boxing matches live on a pay-per-view basis and on a delayed basis on Showtime.  

 Showtime Networks also owns a majority of and manages Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel, a basic cable service in the U.S., featuring programs of a cultural, historical, scientific and educational nature. Smithsonian Networks offers both standard and high definition versions of Smithsonian Channel and a companion on-demand version. Smithsonian Networks additionally makes  Smithsonian Channel content available on an authenticated basis to certain distributors. It also operates the Website  SmithsonianChannel.com and various apps, which promote Smithsonian Channel programming and provide information and entertainment services. In 2013, Smithsonian Networks entered into agreements with Blue Ant Television to create Smithsonian Channel in Canada, which launched in November 2013.  

 CBS Sports Network. CBS Sports Network is a 24-hour cable program service that provides sports and related content, with a strong focus on college sports. The network televises in high definition over 350 live professional, amateur, semi-professional and collegiate events annually, highlighted by Division I college football, basketball, hockey and lacrosse, as well as professional bull riding (PBR), professional basketball (NBA Development League), professional lacrosse (MLL) and arena football (AFL). In addition, the network showcases a variety of original programming, including documentaries and features, studio shows, such as weeknight news and commentary show, ROME, featuring host Jim Rome, and Lead Off, and weekly shows such as NFL Monday QB. CBS Sports Network also provides ancillary coverage for CBS Sports relating to major events such as the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament, the Masters, the PGA Championship and U.S. Open Tennis. CBS Sports Network had approximately 51 million  

I-7 

subscribers as of December 31, 2013. The network derives its revenues from subscription fees and the sale of advertising. CBS Sports Network has secured carriage arrangements with the top MVPDs.   

 Cable Networks Competition.   

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks primarily competes with other providers of premium subscription program services in the U.S., including Home Box Office, Inc. and Starz. Competition among these premium subscription program services in the U.S. is dependent on: (i) the production, acquisition and packaging of original series and other original programming and the acquisition and packaging of an adequate number of recently released theatrical motion pictures; and (ii) the offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to MVPDs for carriage so as to favorably position and package Showtime Networks' premium subscription program services to subscribers. Home Box Office, Inc. is the largest company in the U.S. premium subscription program service category, offering two premium subscription program services, HBO and Cinemax. Showtime Networks competes with Home Box Office, Inc. and has a smaller share of the premium subscription program service category. Starz, another premium subscription program service, competes with Showtime Networks' and Home Box Office, Inc.'s premium program services. In addition, Showtime Networks competes with newer, non-traditional subscription programming services delivered via the Internet, such as Netflix, for original programming, theatrical motion pictures and viewership. Showtime Networks also competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with basic cable program services, broadcast television and other media, including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, portable devices and the Internet.  

 Smithsonian Networks competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with non-fiction and other basic cable program services, including Discovery Channel, National Geographic Channel and History, as well as with broadcast television and other media, such as DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, portable devices and the Internet.  

 CBS Sports Network. CBS Sports Network principally competes with cable programming services, including other sports-oriented cable programming services, for distribution and license fee revenue among MVPDs, as well as for viewership and advertising revenue. The effects of consolidation among MVPDs and consumer pricing sensitivity have made it more difficult for newer channels to secure broad distribution in mainstream programming packages. In addition, the largest cable providers have created sports tiers for sports programming services which have not, in many cases, achieved significant subscriber penetration or acceptance. CBS Sports Network is completing its repositioning to be included in programming packages with more subscribers. Re-alignment of college athletic conferences and their member institutions may adversely impact CBS Sports Network's programming arrangements. CBS Sports Network also competes with cable programming services generally, including other sports programming services, such as ESPN, NBC Sports Network and the FOX Sports Networks, in acquiring the television and multimedia rights to sporting events, resulting in increased rights fees and increased production expenses.  

 The terms and favorable renewal of agreements with distributors for the distribution of the Company's subscription program services are important to the Company. The effects of consolidation among MVPDs and other marketplace factors make it more difficult to reach and maintain favorable terms and could have an adverse effect on revenues.  

 Publishing (5%, 6% and 6% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 3% of the Company's consolidated operating income in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011)  

 The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books in the U.S. and internationally.  

 Simon & Schuster publishes and distributes adult and children's consumer books in printed, digital and audio formats in the U.S. and internationally. Digital formats include audio downloads for the Apple  

I-8 

iPod and other companies' MP3 players, electronic books for increasingly popular devices such as Amazon's Kindle, the Apple iPad and Barnes & Noble's NOOK, stand-alone applications for the Apple iPod and iPhone, and new hybrid text and video combinations. Simon & Schuster's major adult imprints include Simon & Schuster,  Pocket Books, Scribner, Atria Books®, Gallery Books®,  Touchstone®, Threshold Editions™ and Howard Books®. Simon & Schuster's major children's imprints include Simon Pulse®, Aladdin®,  Athenium Books for Young Readers™ and Simon & Schuster Books For Young Readers™. Simon & Schuster also develops special imprints and publishes titles based on the products of certain CBS businesses as well as that of third parties and distributes products for other publishers. Simon & Schuster distributes its products directly and through third parties. Simon & Schuster also delivers content and promotes its products on general Internet sites as well as those linked to individual titles; its created assets include online videos showcasing Simon & Schuster authors and new releases on YouTube, iTunes, Blinkx, AOL, SimonandSchuster.com and other sites. International publishing includes the international distribution of English-language titles through Simon & Schuster UK, Simon & Schuster Canada, Simon & Schuster Australia, Simon & Schuster India and other distributors, as well as the publication of local titles by Simon & Schuster UK and Simon & Schuster Australia.  

 In 2013, Simon & Schuster published 326 New York Times bestsellers in hardcover, paperback and electronic formats, collectively, including 37 New York Times #1 bestsellers. Best-selling titles in 2013 include Doctor Sleep (Stephen King), Happy, Happy, Happy (Phil Robertson) and Si-cology 1: Tales and Wisdom from Duck Dynasty's Favorite Uncle (Si Robertson). Bestselling children's titles from Simon & Schuster include  City of Bones (Cassandra Clare), Clockwork Princess (Cassandra Clare) and Dork Diaries 6 (Rachel Renee Russell). Simon & Schuster Digital™, through  SimonandSchuster.com, publishes original content, builds reader communities and promotes and sells Simon & Schuster's books over the Internet.  

 The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. Major new title releases represent a significant portion of Simon & Schuster's sales throughout the year. Simon & Schuster's top two accounts drive a significant portion of its annual revenue. Consumer print books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Company is subject to global trends and local economic conditions. In 2013, the sale of digital content represented approximately 27% of Simon & Schuster's revenues. The Company expects that electronic books will continue to represent an increasing portion of Simon & Schuster revenues in the coming years.  

 Publishing Competition. The consumer publishing business is highly competitive and has been affected over the years by consolidation trends and new electronic distribution methods and models. Mass merchandisers and on-line retailers are significant factors in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. The growth of the electronic book market has impacted print book retailers and wholesalers and could result in a reduction of these channels for the sales and marketing of the Company's books. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions and competition may adversely affect book retailers' operations, including distribution of the Company's books. The Company must compete with other larger publishers such as Penguin Random House, Hachette and Harper Collins for the rights to works by authors and sales to retailers and customers. Competition is particularly strong for well-known authors and public personalities. In addition, technological changes have made it increasingly possible for authors to self-publish and have led to the development of new digital distribution models in which the Company's books must compete with the availability of both a larger volume of books as well as non-book content.  

 Local Broadcasting (18%, 20% and 20% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 25%, 28% and 29% of the Company's consolidated operating income in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively)  

I-9 

 The Local Broadcasting segment is composed of CBS Television Stations, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations, and CBS Radio, through which the Company owns and operates 126 radio stations in 27 U.S. markets and related online properties. The Company operates local Websites in major U.S. markets, including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and Dallas, which combine the Company's television and radio local media brands online to provide the latest news, traffic, weather, and sports information as well as local discounts, directories and reviews to serve the local community.  

 CBS Television Stations. The Company owns 30 broadcast television stations through its CBS Television Stations group, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act"). The licenses are renewable every eight years. The Company's television stations are located in the 7 largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. The Company owns multiple television stations within the same designated market area ("DMA") in 10 major markets. These multiple station markets are: New York (market #1), Los Angeles (market #2), Philadelphia (market #4), Dallas-Fort Worth (market #5), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (market #6), Boston (market #7), Detroit (market #11), Miami-Ft. Lauderdale (market #16), Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto (market #20), and Pittsburgh (market #23). This group of television stations enables the Company to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations produce news and broadcast public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV programming and syndicated programming. The CBS Television Stations group principally derives its revenues from the sale of advertising time on its television stations. In addition, the CBS Television Stations group receives retransmission fees from MVPDs for authorizing the MVPDs' carriage of the Company's owned television stations. Substantially all of the Company's television stations operate Websites, many of which are combined with the Websites of the Company's radio stations in co-located markets, which promote the stations' programming and provide news, information, entertainment, and other services, through the CBS Local Digital Media group. These Websites principally derive revenues from the sale of advertising.  

 Television Stations 

 The table below sets forth the broadcast television stations owned by the Company as of February 11, 2014.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-10 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-11 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(1)Metropolitan Area Served is Nielsen Media Research's DMA. 

(2)Market Rankings based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimate, September 2013. 

(3)KCCO-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(4)KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(5)WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC's ownership rules.   

 CBS Radio. The Company's radio broadcasting business operates through CBS Radio, one of the largest operators of radio stations in the U.S. CBS Radio owns and operates 126 radio stations serving 27 U.S. markets as of February 11, 2014. Virtually all of the Company's owned and operated radio stations are located in the 50 largest U.S. radio markets and approximately 79% in the 25 largest U.S. radio markets. Most of the Company's owned radio stations implement digital broadcasting. The Company's strategy generally is to operate radio stations in the largest markets and take advantage of the Company's ability to sell advertising across multiple markets and formats. CBS Sports Radio Network launched in January 2013 and provides up to 24-hours, seven-days-a-week of national sports programming to affiliated radio stations. The network has more than 300 affiliates across the country and Canada, including radio stations in 9 of the top 10 U.S. radio markets. Cumulus Media, as CBS Sports Radio Network's exclusive syndicator, is responsible for securing radio station affiliates and for the network's advertising sales. The Company believes that it is favorably impacted by offering radio, television and outdoor advertising platforms in large markets. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table below includes information with respect to the Company's radio stations in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 CBS Radio's geographically dispersed stations serve diverse target demographics through a broad range of formats such as rock, classic hits/oldies, all-news, talk, Spanish language, adult contemporary, top 40/contemporary hit radio, urban, sports and country, and CBS Radio has established leading franchises in news, sports and personality programming. This diversity provides advertisers with the convenience of selecting stations to reach a targeted demographic or groups of stations to reach broad groups of consumers within and across markets and also reduces the Company's dependence on any single station, local economy, format or advertiser. At the same time, CBS Radio maintains substantial diversity in each market where its stations operate so that its stations can appeal to several demographic groups. CBS Radio's general programming strategies include employing popular on-air talent, some of whose broadcasts may be syndicated by CBS Radio using the services of a third party syndicator, broadcasting programming syndicated to it by others, acquiring the rights to broadcast sports play-by-play and producing and acquiring news content for its radio stations. The overall mix of each radio station's programming lineup is designed to fit the station's specific format and serve its local community.  

 The majority of CBS Radio's revenues are generated from the sale of local and national advertising. The major categories of radio advertisers include: automotive, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, insurance, fast food, beverage, movies and entertainment. CBS Radio is able to use the reach, diversity and branding of its radio stations to create unique division-wide marketing and promotional initiatives for major national advertisers of products and services. Advertising expenditures by advertisers fluctuate, which has an effect on CBS Radio's revenues.  

 Substantially all of the Company's radio stations operate Websites, many of which are combined with the Websites of the Company's television stations in co-located markets, which promote the stations' programming, and provide news, information and entertainment, as well as other services. Also, CBS Radio operates Websites for its music radio stations. All of these Websites are part of the CBS Local Digital Media group and principally derive revenues from the sale of advertising. CBS Radio is one of the  

I-12 

most listened to online radio providers according to Triton Digital's monthly Top 20 Ranker for December 2013.   

 Local Broadcasting Competition.   

 CBS Television Stations. Television stations compete for programming, on-air talent, audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and, in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The owned and operated television stations' competitive position is largely influenced by the quality of the syndicated programs and local news programs in time periods not programmed by the network; the strength of the CBS Television Network programming and, in particular, the viewership of the CBS Television Network in the time period immediately prior to the late evening news; and in some cases, by the quality of the broadcast signal.  

 CBS Radio. The Company's radio stations directly compete within their respective markets for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other radio stations, including those owned by other group owners such as Clear Channel Communications, Inc., Cumulus Media Inc., Emmis Communications Corporation, Entercom Communications Corp. and Radio One, Inc. The Company's radio stations, including their Internet and streaming activities, also compete with other media, such as broadcast, cable and DBS television, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, and the Internet, including services such as Pandora, Spotify and Rhapsody. The radio industry is also subject to competition from Sirius XM Holdings Inc., which provides digital audio services to subscribers.  

 The Company's television and radio stations face increasing competition from newer technologies, including audio and visual programming delivered via the Internet, which create new ways for individuals to watch programming and listen to music and other content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements. Also, an increasingly broad adoption by consumers of portable digital devices could affect the ability of the Company's television and radio stations to attract audiences and advertisers.  

 Aggregate total revenues for the Company's radio stations for 2013 were ranked #1 or #2 in four of the top five U.S. markets by metro area population (New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and San Francisco), according to the 2013 Market Total Revenues Performance Summary of Miller, Kaplan, Arase & Co., LLP.  

I-13 

 Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays 

 The following table sets forth information with regard to the Company's radio stations, television stations and outdoor advertising displays as of February 11, 2014 in the top 25 U.S. radio markets:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-14 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-15 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(1)Radio market rank based on Nielsen Radio Market Rankings: Fall 2013 as provided by The Nielsen Company. Television market rank based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimate, September 2013. 

(2)As required by the FCC, the Company assigned KFWB-AM to a divestiture trust. The Company is a beneficiary of the trust. The trustee is operating the radio station and is responsible for selling the radio station to a third party. (See "CBS Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting—Ownership Regulation—Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule"). 

(3)KZDG-AM in San Francisco, California, is programmed by a third party through a time brokerage agreement. 

(4)Sub-market of New York City. The Company's New York City radio and television stations serve Nassau-Suffolk.   

 Outdoor Americas (9% of the Company's consolidated revenues in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011 and 7%, 7% and 8% of the Company's consolidated operating income in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively)  

 The Company provides, through its Outdoor Americas businesses, advertising space on various structures, including billboards, rail, subway cars, buses, benches, trains, trams, transit shelters, urban panels, street kiosks, transit platforms and in retail stores. It has outdoor advertising structures in more than 100 markets in North America, including all 50 of the largest metropolitan markets in the U.S., 19 of the 20 largest metropolitan markets in Canada and all 45 of the largest metropolitan markets in Mexico. Additionally, Outdoor has a variety of outdoor structures in Puerto Rico, Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Chile. The Company operates its Outdoor businesses through CBS Outdoor in the U.S., Canada and South America and Vendor® in Mexico. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table above includes information with regard to the Company's outdoor advertising properties in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 The substantial majority of Outdoor Americas' revenues is generated from providing advertising space to local, regional and national advertisers. Rates for advertising space for a particular structure are based on supply and demand, which are influenced by the structure's exposure, the demographics of the particular market and the location of the structure within that market. Metrics for fixed structures such as billboards and transit shelters, including demographic information and audience views, are measured through the out-of-home advertising industry's audience measurement system (TAB Out-of-Home Ratings), which provides customers with audience measurement information and the ability to target by gender, age, ethnicity and income. These metrics facilitate the inclusion of Outdoor Americas' inventory in the planning stages of media campaigns. The major categories of out-of-home advertisers include: entertainment, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, restaurants, financial services, travel and leisure and automotive industries. Outdoor Americas generally operates in the billboard, transit, and retail store advertising markets.  

 CBS Outdoor generally owns the physical billboard structures on which it displays advertising copy for its customers, holds the legal permits to display the advertising on such structures and leases the underlying sites. Lease agreements are negotiated with both public and private landowners for terms varying between one month and multiple years and usually provide renewal options. There are no significant concentrations of billboard structures that are subject to any one lease or subject to negotiation with any one landlord.  

I-16 

 Transit advertising is provided on or in transit systems, including the interiors and exteriors of rail and subway cars and buses, as well as on benches, trains, trams, transit shelters and platforms. Transit advertising contracts are negotiated with municipalities and transit operators and generally are for multi-year terms and provide for payment to the transit authority of a percentage of the revenues that Outdoor Americas receives from providing space to advertisers, a fixed payment, or the greater of a percentage of the revenues or a fixed payment. Where revenues are lower than anticipated, the minimum amount required to be paid to a transit authority may exceed, or be a high percentage of, the revenues received by Outdoor Americas under that advertising contract.  

 Transit shelters and benches reach both vehicular and pedestrian audiences. Transit shelters are usually constructed, installed and maintained by Outdoor. Most of Outdoor Americas' transit shelter and bench contracts include revenue-sharing arrangements with a municipality or transit authority and often include minimum required payments. Such contracts usually involve a competitive bidding process and are awarded on the basis of projected revenues to the municipality, including minimum payments, and Outdoor Americas' willingness to construct public facilities, such as bus shelters, public toilets and information kiosks.  

 The Company keeps apprised of and has adopted newer technologies for outdoor advertising displays, such as digital displays, as they evolve and mature. For example, Outdoor Americas is utilizing digital technology containing moving images in New York City subways and in retail outlets. Outdoor Americas is also building new digital billboards and digitizing the displays on previously static billboards. Digital displays allow for more visually engaging messages and provide customers with the flexibility to target audiences by region and retail environment. In addition, digital billboard displays enable Outdoor Americas to run multiple advertisements on each display and to quickly launch new advertising campaigns, which could attract additional business from both new and existing customers. Generally, Outdoor Americas enters into revenue-sharing arrangements with retailers.  

 Outdoor Americas' business strategy involves operating in major selected markets, to grow its revenues and cash flow by being a leading provider of out-of-home advertising in the markets it serves, controlling costs, developing and entering into new markets and using advanced technologies to build greater awareness for its clients. In addition, the Company purchases structures within its existing markets or in contiguous markets to expand its reach. The Company believes that there will be continuing opportunities for implementing its acquisition and development strategies given the outdoor industry's fragmentation.  

 During 2013, the Company announced its intention to separate its Outdoor Americas business and, subject to receiving a ruling from the IRS, convert it into a REIT. Subject to market conditions and customary approvals, CBS Outdoor Americas Inc. expects to sell up to 20% of its common stock through an IPO during the first quarter of 2014. At a time subsequent to the IPO, the Company intends to dispose of the remaining shares of CBS Outdoor Americas Inc. that it will own after completion of the IPO.  

 Outdoor Competition. The outdoor advertising industry is fragmented, consisting of several large companies involved in providing outdoor space for advertising such as Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc., JCDecaux S.A. and Lamar Advertising Company as well as hundreds of smaller regional and local companies operating a limited number of display faces in a single or a few local markets. The Company competes with these companies for both customers and structure and display locations. The Company also competes with other media, including broadcast and cable television, radio, print media, the Internet and direct mail marketers, within their respective markets. In addition, it competes with a wide variety of out-of-home media, including providers of advertising space in shopping centers, airports, movie theaters, supermarkets and taxis. Advertisers compare relative costs of available media and cost-per-thousand impressions, particularly when delivering a message to customers with distinct demographic characteristics. In competing with other media, the outdoor advertising industry relies on its relative cost efficiency and its ability to reach specific markets, geographic areas and/or demographics. The Company keeps apprised of the evolution of new technologies in the industry. As new technologies such as  

I-17 

digital billboards prove desirable to Outdoor Americas' customers and deliver appropriate returns on investment, the Company could face increased competition for rights to digital billboards and costs could increase. The Company believes that its strong emphasis on customer service and its position as a leading provider of space for out-of-home advertising in each of its primary markets as well as its international inventory enables it to compete effectively with the other outdoor companies, and other media, within those markets.  

 REGULATION  

 The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations of federal, state and local governmental authorities in the U.S. and of national, regional and local authorities in foreign countries. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting these businesses are subject to change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.   

 Intellectual Property and Privacy   

 Laws affecting intellectual property are of significant importance to the Company. (See "Intellectual Property" on page I-23 for more information on the Company's brands).  

 Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Content and Piracy. Unauthorized distribution, reproduction or display of copyrighted material over the Internet and through physical devices without regard to content owners' copyright rights in television programming, motion pictures, clips and books, such as through pirated DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, user-generated content, streaming, Internet downloads, file "sharing" and peer-to-peer services, is a threat to copyright owners' ability to protect and exploit their property. The Company enters into and explores possibilities for commercial arrangements with various online providers to protect and exploit its content. The Company is also engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect its intellectual property and has participated in various litigations, public relations programs and legislative activity. Various litigations are pending regarding entities that stream the Company's broadcast content without obtaining the consent of or paying compensation to the Company, and the U.S. Supreme Court has granted certiorari to hear a case involving a challenge by major broadcasters to one such entity.  

 Copyright Law and Content. The Company derives revenues from the creation and exploitation of creative content, for which the copyright law grants certain exclusive rights, including to reproduce, publicly perform and distribute. In the U.S., the copyright term for authored works is the life of the author plus 70 years. For works made for hire, the copyright term is the shorter of 95 years from the first publication or 120 years from creation. Any changes to copyright laws, which diminish the scope of a copyright owner's exclusive rights, could impact the Company.  

 Privacy. The laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transfer of consumer information are complex and rapidly evolving, particularly as they relate to the Company's interactive businesses. The Company monitors and considers these laws and regulations in the design and operation of its Websites and legal and regulatory compliance programs.   

 Broadcasting   

 General. Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other actions, to issue, renew, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses; determine stations' frequencies, locations and operating power; regulate some of the equipment used by stations; adopt other regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act and other laws, including requirements affecting the content of broadcasts; and to impose penalties for violation of its regulations, including monetary forfeitures, short-term renewal of licenses and, in egregious cases, license revocation or denial of license renewals.  

I-18 

 Under the Communications Act, the FCC also regulates certain aspects of the operation of MVPDs and certain other electronic media that compete with broadcast stations.  

 Indecency and Profanity Regulation. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent or profane material because the vagueness of the FCC's indecency/profanity definition makes it difficult to apply, particularly with respect to spontaneous, live programming. The FCC's maximum forfeiture penalty per station for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The Company has been involved in litigation and, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on its broadcast stations included indecent or profane material.  

 License Renewals. Radio and television broadcast licenses are typically granted for standard terms of eight years. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity and, with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. The Company has a number of pending renewal applications. A station remains authorized to operate while its license renewal application is pending.  

 License Assignments. The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee. Third parties may oppose the Company's applications to assign, transfer or acquire broadcast licenses.  

 Ownership Regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have an official position or ownership interest, known as an "attributable" interest, above specific levels in broadcast stations as well as in other specified mass media entities. In seeking FCC approval for the acquisition of a broadcast radio or television station license, the acquiring person or entity must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC's ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest.  

 The FCC adopted a notice of proposed rule-making ("NPRM") in its latest quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules in December 2011, which is still pending. In that NPRM, the FCC has proposed modifying the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership and local television ownership rules and eliminating the radio-television cross-ownership rule. The FCC's current ownership rules and proposed changes are briefly summarized below.    

 Local Radio Ownership. The FCC's local radio ownership rule applies in all markets where the Company owns radio stations. Under that rule, one party may own up to eight radio stations in the largest markets, no more than five of which may be either AM or FM. With a few exceptions, the rule permits the common ownership of 8 radio stations in the top 50 markets, where CBS Radio has significant holdings.  

 Local Television Ownership. Under the FCC's local television ownership rule, one party may own up to two television stations in the same DMA, so long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC, and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power television stations remain in the market. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. The NPRM proposed eliminating this provision of the local television ownership rule. "Satellite" television stations that simply    

I-19 

rebroadcast the programming of a "parent" television station are exempt from the local television ownership rule if located in the same DMA as the "parent" station.  

 Television National Audience Reach Limitation. Under the FCC's national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations which reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households. For purposes of calculating the total number of television households reached by a station, the FCC attributes a UHF television station with only 50% of the television households in its market. In September 2013, the FCC adopted a notice of proposed rule-making to eliminate the UHF discount, which remains pending. The Company currently owns and operates television stations that reach approximately 38% of all U.S. television households but for purposes of the national ownership limitation, the Company's reach is less than this amount applying the UHF discount in accordance with the FCC's methodology.  

 Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule limits the common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market. The numeric limit varies according to the number of independent media voices in the market. The Company owns a combination of radio and television stations in the Los Angeles market in excess of the limit. As required by the FCC, the Company assigned radio station KFWB-AM in Los Angeles to a divestiture trust. The Company is a beneficiary of the trust. The trustee is operating the radio station and is responsible for selling the radio station to a third party, the closing of which would bring the Company into compliance with this cross-ownership rule. As part of its quadrennial review of media ownership rules, the FCC has proposed to repeal this rule in favor of reliance on the local radio ownership rule and the local television ownership rule.  

 Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership. The newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule prohibits the common ownership of a broadcast station and daily newspaper in the same market absent a waiver by the FCC. As part of its quadrennial review of media ownership rules, the FCC has proposed a rule that would presume a waiver to be consistent with the public interest if: (1) a daily newspaper sought to combine with a radio station in the same top 20 market, or (2) a daily newspaper sought to combine with a full-power commercial television station in the same top 20 market, and (a) the television station is not ranked among the top four television stations in the market and (b) at least eight independently owned and operated "major media voices" would remain in the market after the combination.  

 Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, from combining.    

 Attribution of Ownership. Under the FCC's attribution rules, a direct or indirect purchaser of various types of securities of an entity which holds FCC licenses, such as the Company, could violate the foregoing FCC ownership regulations or policies if that purchaser owned or acquired an "attributable" interest in other media properties. Under the FCC's rules, an "attributable" interest for purposes of the FCC's broadcast ownership rules generally includes: equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee's total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of the licensee's total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless properly "insulated" from management activities; and any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. The FCC is reviewing its single majority voting shareholder attribution exemption, which renders as non-attributable voting interests up to 49% in a licensee controlled by a single majority voting shareholder. Because NAI holds an attributable interest in both the Company and Viacom Inc., the business of each company is attributable to the other for certain FCC purposes, which may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives  

I-20 

and business terms available to the Company. (See Item 1A. "Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities").    

 Alien Ownership. In general, the Communications Act prohibits foreign individuals or entities from owning more than 20% or more than 25%, depending on the circumstances, of the voting power or equity of the Company. In November 2013, the FCC provided additional information regarding its case-by-case review process for applications that propose foreign ownership that exceed such 25% threshold.    

 Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations. The 1992 Cable Act and implementing FCC regulations govern the retransmission of commercial television stations by cable television operators. Every three years, a television station must elect, with respect to cable systems within its DMA, either "must carry" status, pursuant to which the cable system's carriage of the station is mandatory, or "retransmission consent," pursuant to which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and secures instead the right to negotiate consideration in return for consenting to carriage. The Company's owned television stations have elected the retransmission consent option in substantially all cases, and, since 2006, the Company has implemented a systematic process of seeking monetary consideration for its retransmission consent.  

 Similarly, federal legislation and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by DBS operators. DBS operators are required to carry the signals of all local television broadcast stations requesting carriage in local markets in which the DBS operator carries at least one signal pursuant to the statutory local-to-local compulsory copyright license. Every three years, each television station in such markets must elect "must carry" or "retransmission consent" status, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to cable systems. Substantially all of the Company's owned and operated television stations are being transmitted into their local markets by the two major DBS operators pursuant to retransmission consent agreements.  

 Children's Television Programming. Federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on television stations during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and require stations to broadcast on their main program stream three hours per week of educational and informational programming ("E/I programming") designed for children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also impose E/I programming requirements on each additional digital multicast program stream transmitted by television stations, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. These rules also limit the display during children's programming of Internet addresses of Websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products.  

 Program Access. Under the Communications Act, vertically integrated cable programmers (more fully described below) are generally prohibited from offering different prices, terms or conditions to competing MVPDs unless the differential is justified by certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC's regulations. Until recently, the FCC's "program access" rules also generally prohibited vertically integrated cable programmers from entering into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators. The FCC continues to assess the competitive impact of such individual exclusive contracts. A cable programmer is considered to be vertically integrated under the FCC's program access attribution rules if it owns or is owned by a cable operator in whole or in part. Cable operators for this purpose may include telephone companies that provide video programming directly to subscribers.  

 The Company's wholly owned program services are not currently subject to the program access rules. The Company's flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for carriage of these services and its ability to offer cable operators exclusive programming could be adversely affected if it were to become subject to the program access rules. Because the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control by NAI, Viacom Inc.'s businesses could be attributable to the Company for purposes of the FCC's program  

I-21 

access rules. (See Item 1A. "Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities").  

 National Broadband Plan. In response to the FCC's March 2010 National Broadband Plan, which seeks to provide affordable broadband access throughout the U.S., Congress passed legislation in February 2012 authorizing the FCC to conduct voluntary auctions of spectrum utilized by broadcast television stations to provide additional spectrum for wireless broadband services. The television stations that continue their operations may have to change channels once the FCC "repacks" the broadcast spectrum dedicated to broadcast television use. The legislation provides that the FCC will assist television stations in retaining their current coverage areas, no stations will be forced into the VHF band and a fund will be established to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses relating to the spectrum-repacking. In September 2012, the FCC launched a rule-making proceeding to implement the auction legislation and auctions are expected to occur in 2015, followed by the repacking process.   

 Outdoor Americas   

 The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations can affect the operation of outdoor structures and include restrictions on the construction, repair, operation, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes and fees. These laws may affect competitive conditions in various markets in various ways. Such laws may reduce the Company's expansion opportunities, or may increase or reduce competitive pressure from others. No assurance can be given that existing or future laws or regulations and the enforcement thereof will not materially and adversely affect the Outdoor Americas business.  

 Under U.S. law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (the "HBA"), outdoor advertising is regulated on primary and interstate highways built with federal financial assistance. As a condition to federal highway assistance, the HBA requires states to restrict billboards on such highways to commercial and industrial areas, and imposes certain size, spacing and other requirements associated with the installation and operation of billboards. The HBA requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings on affected roadways. Outdoor Americas does not believe that the number of its billboards that may be subject to removal under these regulations is material.  

 Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. Some state and local government regulations prohibit construction of new billboards and some allow new construction only to replace existing structures, although most allow construction of billboards subject to restrictions on zoning, size, spacing, height and type of construction. In some cases, the construction of new billboards or the relocation or modification of existing billboards is prohibited. A number of foreign, state and local governments have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including imposing taxes, fees and/or registration requirements, including in New York City, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Toronto and Miami, in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. No assurance can be given that existing or future laws or regulations, and their enforcement, will not adversely affect Outdoor Americas' business. The Company contests laws and regulations that it believes unlawfully restrict its constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of its outdoor advertising business.  

 U.S. law neither requires nor prohibits removal of existing lawful billboards, but it does require payment of compensation if a state or political subdivision compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a primary or interstate highway that was built with federal financial assistance. State governments have purchased and removed legal billboards for beautification objectives in the past using federal funding for  

I-22 

transportation enhancement programs, and may do so in the future. State government authorities from time to time use the power of eminent domain to remove billboards. Thus far, Outdoor Americas has been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for its billboards purchased or removed as a result of this type of governmental action, although there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. Local governments do not generally purchase billboards for beautification, but some have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) after a period of years under a concept called amortization. Under this concept the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Although there is some question as to the legality of amortization under federal and many state laws, amortization has been upheld in some instances. Outdoor Americas generally has been successful in negotiating settlements with municipalities for billboards required to be removed. Restrictive regulations also limit Outdoor Americas' ability to rebuild or replace nonconforming billboards.  

 As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities in outdoor advertising operations, the Company must comply with various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. The Company and its properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety, as well as zoning and other land use restrictions, which may affect, among other things, the type of display, such as digital, tri-vision or static, the hours of operation and illumination as well as methods and conditions of maintenance of facilities and advertising installation. Historically, the Company has not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, future laws or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws could require the Company to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict its ability to use or operate some of its outdoor structures. Outdoor Americas intends to expand the deployment of digital billboards that display static digital advertising copy from various advertisers that change up to several times per minute. Some existing regulations in the U.S. and across some international jurisdictions restrict or prohibit these types of digital displays. However, since digital technology for changing static copy has only recently been developed and introduced into the market on a large scale, existing regulations that currently do not apply to digital technology by their terms could be revised to impose greater restrictions.  

 Certain products, services and types of displays are or may be targeted by federal, state and local laws and regulations. For example, tobacco products have been banned from outdoor advertising. In addition, state and local governments continue to initiate proposals designed to limit outdoor advertising of alcohol. Legislation regulating alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in Outdoor Americas' direct revenue from such advertisements and a simultaneous increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry.  

 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  

 The Company creates, owns, distributes and exploits under licenses intellectual property worldwide. It is the Company's practice to protect its products, including its television, radio and motion picture products, characters, publications and other original and acquired works and audiovisual works made for digital exploitation. The following logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are among those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company:  CBS®, CBS Entertainment™, CBS News®, CBS Sports®, CBSSports.com®, CNET®, CBS Radio®, Showtime®, Showtime Anytime®, The Movie Channel®, Flix®, CBS Films®, CBS Outdoor®, CBS Audience Network™, TV.com™, Last.fm®, MetroLyrics®, CSI:®, NCIS™, Entertainment Tonight®, Star Trek®, Simon & Schuster®, CBS Sports Network™, CBS Interactive™ and all the call letters for the Company's television and radio stations. As a result, domestic and foreign laws protecting intellectual property rights are important to the Company and the Company actively enforces its intellectual property rights against infringements.  

I-23 

 EMPLOYEES  

 At December 31, 2013, the Company employed approximately 19,490 full-time and part-time salaried employees and had approximately 5,210 additional project-based staff.  

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS  

 Financial and other information by segment and relating to foreign and domestic operations for each of the last three years ending December 31 is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

 CBS Corp. makes available free of charge on or through the Investors section of its Website, www.cbscorporation.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such material is made available through the Company's Website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's Website at www.sec.gov.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors.