ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors    

 The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Company is subject to substantially the same risk factors as other U.S.-based global industrial manufacturers, although the Company  

 8   

 believes that its decentralized structure and the broad array of end markets that its businesses serve help to mitigate the possibility that any single risk factor will materially adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial position.  

 A downturn or further downturn in certain of the major markets served by the Company could materially adversely affect results.  

 Certain of the Company’s businesses directly or indirectly serve the construction, general industrial, automotive or food institutional/restaurant and service markets. The current global economic crisis has caused downturns in many industrial markets and severe downturns in several markets, including the construction and automotive markets. There can be no assurance as to when economic conditions will improve. A further or unexpectedly sustained downturn in one or more of these markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 The global nature of our operations subjects the Company to political and economic risks that could adversly affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 The Company currently has approximately 875 business units in 54 countries. In 2008, approximately 59% of the Company’s revenues were generated outside of the United States. As the Company continues to expand its global footprint these sales may represent an ever increasing portion of the Company’s revenues. The risks inherent in our global operations include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding its international businesses, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

 A significant currency fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating income.  

 Although the Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in other foreign currencies, with the largest concentration of foreign sales occurring in Europe. The Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and other foreign currencies in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.  

 Further diminished credit availability could adversely impact our ability to readily obtain financing.  

 Recent economic conditions have not materially impaired our ability to access credit or obtain appropriate financing. There can be no assurance, however, that there will not be a further deterioration in world financial markets and decreases in credit availability. Such further deterioration could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing when desired or cause the cost of financing to increase.  

 9   

 Raw material price increases and supply shortages could adversly affect results.  

 The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component parts suppliers could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. While the Company generally attempts to pass along increased raw material and component parts prices to its customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased prices to the Company and the Company’s ability to increase the prices of its products, or it may be unable to increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure or other factors. Consequently, its results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.  

 If the Company is unable to successfully introduce new products or adequately protect its intellectual property, its future growth may be impaired.  

 The Company’s ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and materially adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.  

 Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.  

 An unfavorable environment for making acquisitions may adversely affect the Company’s future growth.  

 The Company has historically followed a strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services as well as larger acquisitions that represent potential new platforms. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts, its ability to continue to grow could be adversely affected.  

 Unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.  

 Potential adverse outcome in legal proceedings may adversely affect results.  

 The Company’s businesses expose it to potential toxic tort and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that it uses or resells. The Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate insurance programs consisting of self insurance up to certain limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over established limits. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance programs will provide adequate protection against actual losses. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and become unable to pay claims that may be made in the future. Even if it maintains adequate insurance programs, successful claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance in the future.  

 10   

  ITEM 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 Not applicable.   

  ITEM 2.    Properties