PART I  

  ITEM 1.    Business    

 General  

 Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company” or “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915. The Company is a multinational manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment with approximately 875 operations in 54 countries. These 875 businesses are internally reported as 60 operating segments to senior management. The Company’s 60 operating segments have been aggregated into the following seven external reportable segments:  

 Industrial Packaging: Businesses in this segment produce steel, plastic and paper products used for bundling, shipping and protecting goods in transit.  

 In the Industrial Packaging segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Power Systems & Electronics: Businesses in this segment produce equipment and consumables associated with specialty power conversion, metallurgy and electronics.  

 In the Power Systems & Electronics segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Transportation: Businesses in this segment produce components, fasteners, fluids and polymers, as well as truck remanufacturing and related parts and service.  

 In the Transportation segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Food Equipment: Businesses in this segment produce commercial food equipment and related service.  

 In the Food Equipment segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Construction Products: Businesses in this segment produce tools, fasteners and other products for construction applications.  

 In the Construction Products segment, products include:  

    •   fasteners and related fastening tools for wood applications;   

    •   anchors, fasteners and related tools for concrete applications;   

    •   metal plate truss components and related equipment and software; and    

 2   

    •   packaged hardware, fasteners, anchors and other products for retail.    

 Polymers & Fluids: Businesses in this segment produce adhesives, sealants, lubrication and cutting fluid, and hygiene products.  

 In the Polymers & Fluids segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All Other: This segment includes all other operating segments.  

 In the All Other segment, products include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 80/20 Business Process  

 A key element of the Company’s business strategy is its continuous 80/20 business process for both existing businesses and new acquisitions. The basic concept of this 80/20 business process is to focus on what is most important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of the value) and to spend less time and resources on the less important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the value). The Company’s operations use this 80/20 business process to simplify and focus on the key parts of their business, and as a result, reduce complexity that often disguises what is truly important. The Company’s 875 operations utilize the 80/20 process in various aspects of their business. Common applications of the 80/20 business process include:  

    •   Simplifying product lines by reducing the number of products offered by combining the features of similar products, outsourcing products or, as a last resort, eliminating low-value products.   

    •   Segmenting the customer base by focusing on the 80/20 customers separately and finding alternative ways to serve the 20/80 customers.   

    •   Simplifying the supplier base by partnering with 80/20 suppliers and reducing the number of 20/80 suppliers.   

    •   Designing business processes, systems and measurements around the 80/20 activities.    

 The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is that the Company has over time improved its long-term operating and financial performance. These 80/20 efforts can result in restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve margins. Corporate management works closely with those businesses that have operating results below expectations to help those businesses better apply this 80/20 business process and improve their results.  

 3   

 Discontinued Operations  

 In August 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the divestiture of the Decorative Surfaces segment and Click Commerce industrial software business which was previously reported in the All Other segment. The Company is actively marketing these businesses and expects to dispose of both businesses in 2009. These businesses have been classified as held for sale beginning in the third quarter of 2008.  

 Previously, in 2006, the Company divested a construction business. In 2007, the Company divested an automotive machinery business and a consumer packaging business. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company classified an automotive components business and a second consumer packaging business as held for sale. The consumer packaging business was sold in 2008. The Company is actively marketing the automotive components business and expects to dispose of it in the first half of 2009.  

 Current Year Developments  

 Refer to pages 34 through 49, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

 Financial Information about Segments and Markets  

 Segment and geographic data and operating results of the segments are included on pages 36 through 43 and 73 through 75 of the Company’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

 The principal end markets served by the Company’s seven segments by percentage of revenue are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Company’s businesses primarily distribute their products directly to industrial manufacturers and through independent distributors.  

 4   

 Backlog  

 Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company’s businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of its products. Backlog by segment as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is summarized as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2009 were not material as of December 31, 2008.  

 The information set forth below is applicable to all industry segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:  

 Competition  

 The Company’s global competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of products the Company manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the product or market, the Company may compete with a limited number of companies or with many others. The Company is a leading producer of plastic and metal components and fasteners; industrial packaging machinery and related consumables; welding products and related consumables; automotive aftermarket maintenance and appearance products; food service equipment; polymers and fluid products; consumer packaging; materials testing equipment; and industrial finishing equipment.  

 Raw Materials  

 The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily metals, plastics, paper and chemicals, that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and energy has not resulted in any significant business interruptions or other major problems, and no such problems are anticipated.  

 Research and Development  

 The Company’s growth has resulted from developing new and improved products, broadening the application of established products, continuing efforts to improve and develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce customers’ costs by eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts in an assembly, or by improving the quality of customers’ assembled products. Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by working closely with customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and development costs are set forth on page 57 of the Company’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

 The Company owns approximately 3,900 unexpired United States patents covering articles, methods and machines. Many counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has approximately 1,700 applications for patents pending in the United States Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be issued. The Company maintains an active patent department for the administration of patents and processing of patent applications.  

 5   

 The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing techniques; skills and efficiency; marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

 Trademarks  

 Many of the Company’s products are sold under various owned or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme, Alpine, Anaerobics, Angleboard, Apex, Ark-Les, Avery Berkel, Avery Weigh-Tronix, Bernard, Betaprint, Binks, Buehler, Buildex, Bycotest, Chemtronics, Covid, Cullen, Deltar, Densit, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Electrocal, Euromere, Evercoat, E-Z Anchor, Fastex, Filtertek, Foilmark, Forte, Foster, Franklynn, Futura Coatings, Gamko, Gema, GSE, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Instron, Intellibuild, Keps, Kester, Krafft, Lachenmeier, Lebo, Loma, LPS, Magna, Magnaflux, Meyercord, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Nexus, NorDen, Orbitalum, Orgapack, Pacific Polymers, Paktron, Paslode, Peerless, Permatex, Plexus, Polymark, Pro/Mark, Pryda, QMI, QSA, Quipp, Racor, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Reyflex, Rippey, Rockwell, Rocol, Sentinel, Shakeproof, Shore, Signode, Simco, Sonotech, Space Bag, Spectrum, Speedline, Spiroid, SPIT, Spray Nine, Stero, Stokvis Tapes, Strapex, Tapcon, Teks, Tempil, Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Tregaskiss, Truswal Systems, Trymer, Valeron, Versachem, Vitronics Soltec, Vulcan, Wachs, WERCS, Wynn’s and Zip-Pak.  

 Environmental  

 The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not expected to materially affect the Company’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations.  

 Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world relating to manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact on the Company’s revenues or earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to develop and sell environmentally compatible products.  

 Employees  

 The Company employed approximately 65,000 persons as of December 31, 2008 and considers its employee relations to be excellent.  

 International  

 The Company’s international operations include subsidiaries and joint ventures in 53 foreign countries on six continents. These operations serve such end markets as general industrial, construction, automotive, food institutional/restaurant and service, food and beverage, primary metals, electronics, consumer durables, and others on a worldwide basis. The Company’s international operations contributed approximately 59% of revenues in 2008, 56% of revenues in 2007 and 51% of revenues in 2006.  

 Refer to pages 34 through 49 and page 75 in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information on international activities. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates. Additional risks of our international operations are described under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below.  

 6   

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that may be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “guidance,” and other similar words, including, without limitation, statements regarding the timing of disposal of businesses held for sale, availability of raw materials and energy, the expiration of any one of the Company’s patents, the cost of compliance with environmental regulations, the adequacy of internally generated funds, the meeting of dividend payout objectives, the ability to fund debt service obligations, payments under guarantees, the Company’s portion of future benefit payments related to pension and postretirement benefits, the availability of additional financing, the outcome of outstanding legal proceedings, the impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements and the estimated amount of unrecognized tax benefits. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Important risks that may influence future results include (1) a further downturn in the construction, general industrial, automotive or food institutional/restaurant and service markets, (2) changes or deterioration in international and domestic business and economic conditions, particularly in North America, Europe, Asia or Australia, (3) the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations and costs of raw materials, (4) decreases in credit availibility, (5) an interruption in, or reduction in, introducing new products into the Company’s product lines, (6) an unfavorable environment for making acquisitions, domestic and international, including adverse accounting or regulatory requirements and market values of candidates, and (7) unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings. The risks covered here are not all inclusive and given these and other possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. A more detailed description of these risks is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

 ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties. Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.  

 Executive Officers  

 Executive Officers of the Company as of February 27, 2009 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 7   

 The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for Mses. Brady and Warner and Messrs. Brunner, Hindman, Kropp, Martel, Martindale, Parry, Santi, Valls and Wooten, each of the foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various elected executive capacities for more than five years. Ms. Brady was elected Senior Vice President of Human Resources in 2006. Prior to joining the Company in 2006, she was Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer of Snap-On Inc. Ms. Warner was elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as President of worldwide finishing, she was President of Plexus Systems and a Vice President of EDS. Mr. Brunner was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1980 and has held various management positions with the automotive fasteners businesses. Mr. Hindman was elected Executive Vice President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1976 and has held various sales, marketing and general management positions with the construction products businesses. Mr. Kropp was elected Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer in 2006. He joined the Company in 1993. He has held various financial management positions and was appointed as Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting in 2002 and was designated Principal Accounting Officer in 2005. Mr. Martel was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994 and has held various management positions in the automotive and metal components businesses. Mr. Martindale was elected Executive Vice President in 2008. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as President of the test and measurement businesses, he was Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Instron. Mr. Parry was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994 and has held various management positions in the performance polymers businesses. Mr. Santi was elected Vice Chairman in 2008 and previously was elected Executive Vice President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1983 and has held various sales, marketing and general management positions with the construction products, machined components and welding businesses. Mr. Valls was elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to his new appointment, he was Vice President and General Manager of ITW Delfast International. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held various management positions in the European automotive businesses. Mr. Wooten was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary in 2006. He joined the Company in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in the legal department.  

 Available Information  

 The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company’s website (www.itw.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Also posted on the Company’s website are the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors