ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS 

OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW 

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in parts of South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast. Other wholly owned nonregulated subsidiaries provide fiber optic and other telecommunications services and provide service contracts to homeowners on certain home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. Additionally, a service company subsidiary of SCANA provides administrative, management and other services to the other subsidiaries. 

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conducted their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

table of contents  

The following percentages reflect revenues and net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) In 2006, revenues reflect the prior business model for the Gas Transmission segment. See Results of Operations  

 for more information. 

 (b) In 2006, net income for non-regulated businesses included a reduction of an accrual upon settlement of certain  

 litigation associated with the Company’s prior sale of its propane assets. See Results of Operations for more information. 

Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook  

The southeast has suffered from the effects of a recession that has progressively worsened during 2008. At December 31, 2008 preliminary estimates of unemployment for the states in which the Company provides service have ranged from 8.1% in Georgia to 9.5% in South Carolina. While customer growth remained positive throughout 2008 in most regulated business segments, the rate of growth slowed considerably. In addition, the regulated business segments began to experience declines in customer usage in 2008. Our nonregulated natural gas marketer experienced a reduction in retail customers of approximately 5% during the year due primarily to intensified competition. The Company expects the recession to continue well into 2009, if not longer, and cannot determine when or if customer growth and usage trends may return to pre-2008 levels. 

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation (CGTC) and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (PSNC Energy), consisting primarily of capital expenditures for environmental facilities, new generating capacity and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses. 

Electric Operations 

The electric operations segment is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, South Carolina Generating Company, Inc. (GENCO) and South Carolina Fuel Company, Inc. (Fuel Company), and is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina. At December 31, 2008 SCE&G provided electricity to 649,600 customers in an area covering nearly 16,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generation station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G’s nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowance requirements. 

Operating results for electric operations are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, the ability to control costs and rates allowed to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity may not exceed 11.0%. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers' bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. 

In 2008, SCE&G contracted with Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone & Webster, Inc. for the design and construction of two 1,117-megawatt nuclear electric generating units at the site of V. C. Summer Nuclear Station (Summer Station). SCE&G and South Carolina Public Service Authority (Santee Cooper) will be joint owners and share operating costs and generation output of the two additional units, with SCE&G accounting for 55 percent of the cost and output and Santee Cooper the remaining 45 percent. Assuming timely receipt of federal and state approvals and construction proceeding as scheduled, the first unit is expected to be completed and in service in 2016, the second in 2019. The successful completion of the project would result in an increase of the Company’s utility plant in service of approximately 60% over its 2008 level. Financing and managing the construction of these plants, together with continuing environmental construction projects, represents a significant challenge to the Company.

table of contents  

On February 11, 2009 the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s combined application pursuant to the Base Load Review Act (the BLRA), seeking a certificate of environmental compatibility and public convenience and necessity and for a base load review order, relating to proposed construction by SCE&G and Santee Cooper to build and operate two new nuclear generating units at Summer Station. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC conducted a full pre-construction prudency review of the proposed units and the engineering, procurement and construction contract under which they will be built. The SCPSC prudency finding is binding on all future related rate proceedings so long as the construction proceeds in accordance with the schedules, estimates and projections, including contingencies set forth in the approved application. In addition, beginning with the initial proceeding, SCE&G will be allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate any nuclear construction work in progress incurred. Requested rate adjustments would be based on SCE&G’s updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11%. On February 11, 2009 the SCPSC approved the initial rate increase of $7.8 million or 0.4% related to recovery of the cost of capital on project expenditures through June 30, 2008.  

On March 31, 2008, SCE&G submitted a combined construction and operating license (COL) application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). This COL application for the two new units was reviewed for completeness by the NRC and docketed on July 31, 2008. On September 26, 2008 the NRC issued a thirty month review schedule from the docketing date to the issuance of the safety evaluation report which would signify satisfactory completion of their review. Both the environmental and safety reviews by the NRC continue to be in progress and should support a COL issuance by July 2011. This date would support both the project schedule and the substantial completion dates for the two new units in 2016 and 2019, respectively. 

The Company expects that significant legislative or regulatory initiatives will be undertaken, particularly at the federal level. These initiatives may require the Company to build or otherwise acquire generating capacity from energy sources that exclude fossil fuels, nuclear or hydro facilities (for example, under a renewable portfolio standard or “RPS”). New legislation or regulations may also impose stringent requirements on existing power plants to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. It is also possible that new initiatives will be introduced to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation or regulations will be enacted, and if they are, the conditions they would impose on utilities. 

Gas Distribution 

The gas distribution segment is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy and is primarily engaged in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas to retail customers in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. At December 31, 2008 this segment provided natural gas to 775,000 customers in areas covering 35,000 square miles. 

Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. 

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and, for commercial and industrial customers, the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. Significant supply disruptions occurred in September and October 2005 as a result of hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, resulting in the curtailment during the period of most large commercial and industrial customers with interruptible supply agreements. While supply disruptions have not been experienced since 2005, the price of natural gas remains volatile and has resulted in short-term competitive pressure. The long-term impact of volatile gas prices and gas supply has not been determined. 

Gas Transmission 

CGTC operates an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by the United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). CGTC’s operating results are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Demand for CGTC’s services is closely linked to demand for natural gas and is affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. CGTC provides transportation services to SCE&G for its gas distribution customers and for certain electric generation needs and to SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc. (SEMI) for natural gas marketing. CGTC also provides transportation services to other natural gas utilities, municipalities and county gas authorities and to industrial customers. 

table of contents  

Retail Gas Marketing 

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, comprises the retail gas marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas to approximately 460,000 customers (as of December 31, 2008, and including regulated division customers described below) throughout Georgia. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents approximately a 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. SCANA Energy’s competitors include affiliates of other large energy companies with experience in Georgia’s energy market, as well as several electric membership cooperatives. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors, its ability to continue to provide high levels of customer service and other factors. 

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy serves low-income customers and customers unable to obtain or maintain natural gas service from other marketers at rates approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC), and it receives funding from the Universal Service Fund to help offset some of the bad debt associated with the low-income group. SCANA Energy’s contract to serve as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas ends on August 31, 2009. Two marketers, including SCANA Energy, have made a bid with the GPSC to be the regulated service provider after SCANA Energy’s current contract expires. SCANA Energy expects a decision in March 2009. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us. At December 31, 2008, SCANA Energy’s regulated division served over 90,000 customers. 

SCANA Energy and SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and also utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. Since SCANA Energy operates in a competitive market, it may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and/or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. Further, there can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve. 

Energy Marketing 

The divisions of SEMI, excluding SCANA Energy (Energy Marketing), comprise the energy marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services to customers. 

The operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control costs. Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The Company reports earnings as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, the Company’s GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of its fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In management’s opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Company’s primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for management’s provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it. A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations per share is provided in the table below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

table of contents  

Discussion of above adjustments: 

The cumulative effect of an accounting change resulted from the Company’s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123(R)). The reduction in charge related to propane litigation resulted from litigation arising from the prior sale of the Company’s propane business being settled for an amount that was less than had been accrued previously. This reduction appears in the income statement as a reduction to other expenses.  

Management believes that these adjustments are appropriate in determining the non-GAAP financial performance measure. Management utilizes such measure in exercising budgetary control, managing business operations and determining eligibility for certain incentive compensation payments. The non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations, provides a consistent basis upon which to measure performance by excluding the cumulative effect on per share earnings of the accounting change resulting from the Company’s adoption of SFAS 123(R) and the effect on per share earnings of litigation related to the sale of a prior business. 

Pension Income 

Pension income was recorded on the Company’s financial statements as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

The Company expects to record significant amounts of pension expense in 2009 compared to the pension income recorded in 2008. This unfavorable change is expected due to the significant decline in plan asset values during the fourth quarter of 2008 stemming from turmoil in the financial markets. However, the Company does not expect that a contribution to the pension trust will be necessary in or for 2009, nor does the Company expect limitations on benefit payments to apply. Additionally, in February 2009, the Company was granted accounting orders by the SCPSC which will allow it to mitigate a significant portion of this increased pension expense by deferring as a regulatory asset the amount of pension expense above that which is included in current rates for both of the Company’s South Carolina regulated businesses. These costs will be deferred until future rate filings, at which time the accumulated deferred costs will be addressed prospectively. See further information at Liquidity and Capital Resources and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) 

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 5.6% of income before income taxes in 2008, 3.3% in 2007 and 2.0% in 2006. 

Electric Operations 

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  •   2008 vs 2007   Margin increased by $74.5 million due to increased retail electric rates that went into effect in January 2008 and by $16.6 million due to residential and commercial customer growth. These increases were offset by $5.4 million due to lower off-system sales, by $3.5 million due to lower industrial sales and $10.0 million in lower residential and commercial usage.     

table of contents  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Margin increased by $27.3 million due to customer growth and usage and due to other electric revenue of $5.2 million. These increases were offset by lower off-system sales of $10.2 million.     

Megawatt hour (MWh) sales volumes related to the electric margin above by class were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  •   2008 vs 2007   Territorial sales volumes decreased by 252 MWh due to weather and by 115 MWh due to lower industrial sales volumes as a result of a slowing economy, partially offset by an increase of 238 MWh due to residential and commercial customer growth.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Territorial sales volumes increased by 343 MWh primarily due to residential and commercial customer growth and by 83 MWh due to higher industrial sales volumes.     

Gas Distribution 

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas distribution sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2007 vs 2006   Margin increased by $13.6 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates at SCE&G which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2006, by $1.0 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2007, and by $6.1 million due to other customer growth at SCE&G. The NCUC - approved rate increase at PSNC Energy, for services rendered on or after November 1, 2006, increased margin by $14.3 million. The increase in margin at PSNC Energy also reflects customer growth in 2007 and significant conservation in 2006 due to high natural gas prices.     

Dekatherm (DT) sales volumes by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  •   2008 vs 2007   Residential, commercial and transportation gas sales volume increased primarily due to customer growth. Industrial gas sales volume decreased primarily due to a loss of customers as a result of a slowing economy.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Residential, commercial and transportation gas sales volumes increased primarily due to customer growth.     

Gas Transmission 

Gas Transmission is comprised of the operations of CGTC. Gas transmission sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

*Change not meaningful due to change to a transportation-only business model. 

  •   2008 vs 2007   Transportation revenue is based upon contracts to reserve long-term capacity and is not dependent upon volumes. In 2008 the transportation revenue was unchanged from 2007.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Transportation revenue increased as a result of the change to an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company effective November 1, 2006. As a result of this change, CGTC no longer earns commodity gas revenues, nor does it incur gas costs.     

Transportation volumes totaled 107.9 million DT in 2008 and 108.6 million DT in 2007. Transportation volumes decreased during such period as a result of lower generation, primarily due to milder weather and a slowing economy. In 2006, transportation volumes totaled 57.5 million DT, and sales volumes for all commercial, industrial and sales for resale customers totaled 52.2 million DT. Volumes in 2006 are not comparable to 2007 due to CGTC’s change to an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company effective November 1, 2006. 

Retail Gas Marketing 

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  •   2008 vs 2007   Operating revenues increased primarily as a result of higher average retail prices and volumes. Net income increased primarily due to higher margin and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by the GPSC settlement.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Operating revenues decreased primarily due to lower average retail prices. Net income decreased primarily due to higher expenses, including bad debt expense.     

 Delivered volumes totaled 35.6 million DT in 2008, 34.1 million DT in 2007 and 33.6 million DT in 2006. 

Energy Marketing 

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income (loss) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

*Greater than 100%. 

  •   2008 vs 2007   Operating revenues increased primarily due to higher market prices which more than offset the decrease in sales volumes. Net income decreased due to higher operating expenses.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Operating revenues increased primarily due to customer growth, some of which results from sales to customers formerly reported in the Gas Transmission segment now being reported in Energy Marketing. Net income increased due to higher margin on sales of $3.8 million, offset by higher operating expenses of $1.0 million.     

table of contents  

Delivered volumes totaled 152.6 million DT in 2008, 154.9 million DT in 2007 and 123.9 million DT in 2006. Delivered volumes decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of decreased sales due to milder weather. Delivered volumes increased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of customer growth, including sales to customers formerly reported in the Gas Transmission segment. 

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses arising from the operating segments previously discussed were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Other Income (Expense) 

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental (non-utility) activities and the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

* Greater than 100% 

  •   2008 vs 2007   Other revenues decreased by $11.7 million and other expenses decreased by $6.7 million due to management and maintenance services no longer being provided for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility. Other revenues also decreased by $5.8 million due to income from the sale of a bankruptcy claim in 2007.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   

Other revenues decreased by $32.0 million due to lower power marketing activities and by $26.6 million due to lower fees received for management and maintenance services for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility, as discussed at Income Taxes-Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below. These decreases were partially offset by $5.8 million related to the sale of a bankruptcy claim and by $1.9 million due to lower partnership losses, also as discussed at Income Taxes- Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below. 

Other expenses decreased $31.2 million due to lower power marketing activities, by $19.4 million due to lower management service expenses incurred, as discussed at Income Taxes-Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits below and by $8.7 million related to a FERC power marketing settlement in 2006. These decreases were partially offset by $7.6 million related to the settlement of propane litigation in 2006.     

table of contents  

Interest Expense 

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  •   2008 vs 2007   Interest on long-term debt increased primarily due to increased long-term borrowings. Other interest expense decreased primarily due to lower principal balances on short-term debt.     

  •   2007 vs 2006   Interest on long-term debt decreased primarily due to reduced long-term borrowings and lower interest rates. Other interest expense increased primarily due to higher principal balances and interest rates on short-term debt.     

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense increased primarily due to the recognition at SCE&G of $17.4 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2007 and due to changes in operating income. The recognition of these tax credits in 2006 was $33.5 million. 

Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits 

SCE&G held equity-method investments in two partnerships that were involved in converting coal to synthetic fuel, the use of which fuel qualified for federal income tax credits. Under an accounting methodology approved by the SCPSC, construction costs related to the Lake Murray back-up dam project were recorded in utility plant in service in a special dam remediation account, outside of rate base, and accelerated depreciation was recognized against the balance in this account, subject to the availability of the synthetic fuel tax credits. The synthetic fuel tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. 

For 2007 and 2006, the level of depreciation expense and related tax benefit recognized in the income statement was equal to the available synthetic fuel tax credits, less partnership losses and other expenses, net of taxes. As a result, the balance of unrecovered costs in the dam remediation account declined as accelerated depreciation was recorded. Although these entries collectively had no impact on consolidated net income, they did impact individual line items within the income statement, as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

Available credits were not sufficient to fully recover the construction costs of dam remediation; therefore, regulatory action to allow recovery of remaining costs will be sought. In addition, SCE&G records non-cash carrying costs on the unrecovered investment which amounts were $5.5 million in 2008, $5.6 million in 2007 and $6.6 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2008, remaining unrecovered costs were $70.0 million and were recorded as a regulatory asset within Utility Plant. The Company expects these costs to be recoverable through rates. 

SCANA, through a subsidiary, provided management and maintenance services for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility. These services ceased on December 31, 2007, concurrent with the expiration of the synthetic fuel tax credit program. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

table of contents  

Challenging conditions during 2008 tested the Company’s liquidity and its ability to access short-term funding sources. During this period, all of the banks in the Company’s revolving credit facilities fully funded draws requested of them. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had drawn approximately $450 million from its $1.1 billion facilities, had approximately $80 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding and approximately $250 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had net available liquidity of approximately $800 million, and the Company’s revolving credit facilities are in place until December 2011. The Company’s overall debt portfolio has weighted average maturity of over thirteen years and bears an average cost of 5.62%. All long-term debt, other than facility draws, bears fixed interest rates. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviewed its projected capital expenditures and operating costs for 2009 and adjusted them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service. 

The Company also obtains cash from SCANA’s stock plans. Since July 1, 2008, shares of SCANA common stock purchased on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan have been acquired through original issue shares, rather than on the open market. This provided over $40 million of additional cash during 2008 and is expected to provide approximately $80 million annually for 2009 and forward. Due primarily to new nuclear construction plans, the Company anticipates keeping this strategy in place for the foreseeable future. 

 On January 7, 2009, SCANA closed on the sale of 2.875 million shares of its common stock, raising approximately $100 million. With the reduction of capital expenditures planned for 2009 and planned operating cost reductions in response to current economic conditions, this transaction makes it unlikely that SCANA will need to raise additional equity in 2009 beyond that issued through SCANA’s stock plans. 

SCANA's leverage ratio of debt to capital was approximately 59% at December 31, 2008. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to achieve a leverage ratio at 54% to 57%, but SCANA's ability to do so depends on a number of factors. If SCANA is not able to maintain its leverage ratio, the Company's debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. 

Capital Expenditures 

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, net of AFC were $904 million in 2008 and are estimated to be $1.2 billion in 2009. 

The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for 2009-2011, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows: 

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

table of contents  

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2008 are summarized as follows: 

Contractual Cash Obligations 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

Not included in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of two 1,117-megawatt nuclear electric generation units at the site of V. C. Summer Nuclear Station (Summer Station). SCE&G and Santee Cooper will be joint owners and share operating costs and generation output of the two additional units, with SCE&G accounting for 55 percent of the cost and output and Santee Cooper the remaining 45 percent. Assuming timely receipt of federal and state approvals and construction proceeding as scheduled, the first unit is expected to be completed and in service in 2016, the second in 2019. SCE&G’s share of the estimated cash outlays, including contractual amounts not reflected above, are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Also included in other commercial commitments is a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases. See Note 10F to the consolidated financial statements. 

Included in purchase obligations are customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty. 

In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no required contributions are anticipated until after 2010. Cash payments under the health care and life insurance benefit plan were $11.1 million in 2008, and such annual payments are expected to increase to the $12-$13 million range in the future. 

In addition, the Company is party to certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. At December 31, 2008, the Company had posted $4.2 million in cash collateral for such contracts. 

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1B and 10H to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Company does not have any recorded or unrecorded obligations under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.” 

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and the incurrence of additional short- and long-term debt. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. 

table of contents  

Financing Limits and Related Matters 

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Descriptions of financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow. 

SCE&G and GENCO have obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue up to $700 million of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less, and GENCO may issue up to $100 million of short-term indebtedness. The authority to make such issuances will expire on February 6, 2010. 

At December 31, 2008, SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy had available the lines of credit and outstanding borrowings under or supported by such lines of credit, as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(a) The Company’s committed lines of credit serve to backup the issuance of commercial paper. 

(b) SCANA, SCE&G or a combination may use the line of credit. 

 The committed long-term facilities are revolving lines of credit under credit agreements with a syndicate of banks. Wachovia Bank, National Association and Bank of America, N. A. each provide 14.3% of the aggregate $1.1 billion credit facilities, Branch Banking and Trust Company, UBS Loan Finance LLC, Morgan Stanley Bank, and Credit Suisse, each provide 10.9%, and The Bank of New York and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd each provide 9.1%. Four other banks provide the remaining 9.6%. These bank credit facilities support the issuance of commercial paper by SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy. In addition, a portion of the credit facilities supports SCANA’s borrowing needs. When the commercial paper markets are dislocated (due to either price or availability constraints), the credit facilities are available to support the borrowing needs of SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy. 

In mid-September 2008, a very severe dislocation of the commercial paper, long-term debt and equity markets occurred as concerns over bank solvency adversely impacted the credit markets. Access by SCE&G, Fuel Company and PSNC Energy to the commercial paper markets was very limited. Commercial paper outstanding was significantly reduced, and the interest rates on commercial paper outstanding significantly increased. Generally, SCE&G, Fuel Company and PSNC Energy were only able to issue commercial paper for one week terms, much shorter periods than their prior customary one month terms. In response to the credit market disruption, the Federal Reserve created a Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) to provide liquidity to the commercial paper market by increasing the availability of funding to certain commercial paper issuers. However, the CPFF, which became active in the market on October 27, 2008, only provides such funding to issuers of Tier 1 commercial paper (issuers with credit ratings of A1, P1, F1). While SCE&G, Fuel Company and PSNC Energy, as Tier 2 issuers (with credit ratings of A2, P2, F2), do not qualify for the CPFF program, the Company expected that, over time, the enhanced liquidity in the Tier 1 commercial paper market would positively affect the Tier 2 commercial paper market. As a result of the limited access to commercial paper, SCE&G, Fuel Company and PSNC Energy accessed their credit facilities with banks (described above) and drawn down funds to replace maturing commercial paper. Since year-end, access to the commercial paper market has improved and interest rates have declined significantly. Although these improvements in the commercial paper market have occurred, draws against the revolving credit facilities have been maintained as the interest rates on these draws continue to remain favorable. 

Access to the debt capital markets was also very limited. SCE&G took advantage of a narrow window of market opportunity and issued $300 million of its First Mortgage Bonds at a coupon of 6.50% on October 2, 2008. Issuers found limited opportunities to issue secured long-term debt and only at increased interest rates. Since year-end, however, as the equity markets have deteriorated, the capital markets, particularly in secured long-term bonds of utility companies, have improved. Currently, opportunities to issue unsecured long-term debt still appear to be more limited, although improved since year-end. 

The Company cannot determine how long this dislocation of the credit markets will last. The Company expects that the risks of a global recession may continue to hamper the economy and adversely affect the capital markets.

table of contents  

  SCANA's Restated Articles of Incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCE&G’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and its bond indenture each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances, which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock. 

SCANA Corporation 

SCANA has in effect an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term note debt securities. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued. 

 South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its First Mortgage Bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, will be issuable under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Bond Ratio was 5.51. 

SCE&G’s Restated Articles of Incorporation (Articles) prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as therein defined) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one-half (1.5) times the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Preferred Stock Ratio was 1.7. 

The Articles also require the consent of a majority of the total voting power of SCE&G’s preferred stock before SCE&G may issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&G’s secured indebtedness and capital and surplus (the Ten Percent Test). No such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2008, the Ten Percent Test would have limited total issuances of unsecured indebtedness to approximately $526.1 million. Unsecured indebtedness at December 31, 2008, totaled $222.0 million, and comprised both long- and short-term borrowings. 

Financing Activities 

During 2008 the Company experienced net cash inflows related to financing activities of $571 million primarily due to issuances of long-term debt and common stock, partially offset by repayment of short-term debt and payment of dividends. 

In June 2007 SCANA entered into an agreement to issue and sell Floating Rate Senior Notes due June 1, 2034, in an aggregate principal amount of between $90 million and $110 million. In each of December 2008 and 2007 SCANA issued $40 million of the Floating Rate Senior Notes. The balance of the notes are to be issued in June 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2008 SCANA entered into a forward starting swap agreement with a notional amount of $20 million in anticipation of the June 2009 issuance. At December 31, 2008 the estimated fair value of the forward starting interest rate swap totaled $2.8 million (loss).  

On January 14, 2008, SCE&G issued $250 million of First Mortgage Bonds bearing an annual interest rate of 6.05% and maturing on January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program and for general corporate purposes. Concurrent with this issuance, SCE&G terminated 30-year forward-starting swaps having an aggregate notional amount of $250 million. The resulting loss of approximately $14.0 million on the settlement of these swaps will be amortized over the life of the bonds. 

On March 12, 2008, SCANA issued $250 million of Medium Term Notes bearing an annual interest rate of 6.25% and maturing on April 1, 2020. Proceeds from the sale of these notes were used to repay short-term debt incurred to pay at maturity on March 1, 2008 $100 million of floating rate Medium Term Notes, to pay at maturity on October 23, 2008 $115 million of Medium Term Notes, to repay other short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. Concurrent with this issuance, SCANA terminated a treasury lock having a notional amount of $250 million. The resulting loss on the treasury lock of approximately $3.1 million will be amortized over the life of the Medium Term Notes. 

table of contents  

On May 30, 2008, GENCO issued $80 million in notes bearing an annual interest rate of 6.06% and maturing on June 1, 2018. Proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of GENCO’s construction program. On October 1, 2008, GENCO issued an additional $80 million of notes with the same terms. 

On June 24, 2008, SCE&G issued $110 million of First Mortgage Bonds bearing an annual interest rate of 6.05% and maturing on January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to repay short term debt and for general corporate purposes. Concurrent with this issuance, SCE&G terminated a treasury lock having a notional amount of $110 million. The resulting gain of approximately $0.5 million will be amortized over the life of the bonds. 

On October 2, 2008, SCE&G issued $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds bearing an annual interest rate of 6.50% and maturing on November 1, 2018. Proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. 

On November 14, 2008, GENCO became obligated with respect to $36.4 million of tax-exempt Industrial Revenue Bonds. These bonds have a floating interest rate, although the major component of the interest rate on the bonds is hedged by a pay fixed, receive variable interest rate swap that results in a fixed rate on that component of 3.68%. On December 10, 2008, SCE&G became obligated with respect to $35 million of tax-exempt Industrial Revenue Bonds having a similar swap that results in a fixed rate on that component of 2.89%. These bonds mature on December 1, 2038. Both bond issues are supported by bank letters of credit with stated expiration dates (subject to early termination) of November 14, 2009 and December 10, 2011, respectively. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements of SCANA and SCE&G. 

On January 7, 2009, SCANA closed on the sale of 2.875 million shares of common stock at $35.50 per share. Proceeds to SCANA were $100.5 million and will be used to finance capital expenditures, including the construction of new nuclear units, and for general corporate purposes. 

In the fourth quarter of 2008 SCE&G entered into a forward starting swap agreement in anticipation of the issuance of First Mortgage Bonds with a tenure of 30 years. At December 31, 2008, the estimated fair value of the Company’s forward starting swap totaled $43.7 million (loss) related to a notional amount of $150 million. 

For additional information on significant financing activities, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

On February 19, 2009, SCANA increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on SCANA common stock to $.47 per share, an increase of 2.0%. The new dividend is payable April 1, 2009 to stockholders of record on March 10, 2009. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

The Company’s regulated operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the Clean Air Act, as amended (CAA), the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the Clean Water Act, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (Nuclear Waste Act) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), among others. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which the Company expects to recover through existing ratemaking provisions. 

For the three years ended December 31, 2008, the Company’s capital expenditures for environmental control totaled $526.6 million. These expenditures were in addition to environmental expenditures included in “Other operation and maintenance” expenses, which were $44.0 million during 2008, $34.4 million during 2007, and $28.7 million during 2006. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $110.0 million for 2009 and $137.1 million for the four-year period 2010-2013. These expenditures are included in the Company’s Estimated Capital Expenditures table, discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include the matters discussed below. 

In addition, the Company is monitoring federal legislative proposals that, among other things, may require significant reductions in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions widely believed to contribute to global climate change. Such legislation could impose a tax based on the carbon content of fossil fuels used by the Company, such as coal and natural gas. Other proposals call for implementation of a cap and trade program as a means of meeting stringent new emissions standards. A national mandatory RPS may also be considered. Under an RPS, electric utilities would be required to generate a specific percentage of their power from sources deemed to be “climate-friendly,” such as solar, wind, geothermal and agricultural waste, over varying periods of time. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proposals. 

table of contents  

At the state level, no significant environmental legislation that would affect the Company’s operations advanced during 2008. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be introduced or enacted in 2009, or if new regulations or changes to existing regulations at the state or federal level will be implemented in the coming year. 

Air Quality 

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a final rule in 2005 known as CAIR. CAIR requires the District of Columbia and 28 states, including South Carolina, to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in order to attain mandated state levels. CAIR set emission limits to be met in two phases beginning in 2009 and 2015, respectively, for nitrogen oxide and beginning in 2010 and 2015, respectively, for sulfur dioxide. Numerous states, environmental organizations, industry groups and individual companies challenged the rule, seeking a change in the method CAIR used to allocate sulfur dioxide emission allowances. On December 23, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit remanded the rule without vacatur. Prior to the Court of Appeals’ decision, SCE&G and GENCO had determined that additional air quality controls would be needed to meet the CAIR requirements, including the installation of selective catalytic reactor (SCR) technology at Cope Station for nitrogen oxide reduction and wet limestone scrubbers at both Wateree and Williams Stations for sulfur dioxide reduction. SCE&G and GENCO have already begun to install this equipment, and expect to incur capital expenditures totaling approximately $559 million through 2010. The Company cannot predict when the EPA will issue a revised rule or what impact the rule will have on SCE&G and GENCO. Any costs incurred to comply with this rule or other rules issued by the EPA in the future are expected to be recoverable through rates. 

In 2005 the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) which established a mercury emissions cap and trade program for coal-fired power plants. Numerous parties challenged the rule, and on February 8, 2008, the United States Circuit Court for the District of Columbia vacated the rule for electric utility steam generating units. The Company expects the EPA to issue a new mercury emissions rule but cannot predict when such a rule will be issued or what requirements it will impose. 

The EPA has undertaken an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry, and the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) has brought suit against a number of utilities in federal court alleging violations of the CAA. At least two of these suits have either been tried or have had substantive motions decided—neither favorable to the industry. One of the decisions is not believed to be binding as precedent and the other one, described more fully below, may be. 

On April 2, 2007, in a unanimous ruling, the U.S. Supreme Court vacated a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that effectively halted the EPA enforcement action against Duke Energy Corporation (Duke) for allegedly performing plant modifications without a required permit. Such modifications for life extension and modernization as performed by Duke and other utilities, including SCE&G, were common within the industry. Hence this decision may heighten the potential exposure of utilities to enforcement actions such as those already brought against Duke and others, many of which had not proceeded pending this Supreme Court decision. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be predicted. 

Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA, under a stringent rule known as New Source Review (NSR), that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute “major modifications” which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). SCE&G and GENCO have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of “major modifications,” including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. On October 27, 2003, EPA published a final revised NSR rule in the Federal Register with an effective date of December 26, 2003. The rule represents an industry-favorable departure from certain positions advanced by the federal government in the NSR enforcement initiative. However, on motion of several Northeastern states, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stayed the effect of the final rule. The ultimate application of the final rule to the Company is uncertain. The Company has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPA’s requests and believes each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance under what it believes is a fair reading of both the prior regulation and the contested revised regulation. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. 

The current state of continued DOJ enforcement actions is the subject of industry-wide speculation, but it is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G and GENCO, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $32,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the three plants. The Company believes that any enforcement actions relative to the Company compliance with CAA would be without merit. The Company further believes that installation of equipment responsive to CAIR previously discussed will mitigate many of the concerns with NSR. 

table of contents  

Water Quality 

The Clean Water Act, as amended (CWA), provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all, and renewed for nearly all, of SCE&G’s and GENCO’s generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling discharges, has modified the requirements for cooling water intake structures, and has required strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the CWA. Such legislation may include limitations to mixing zones and toxicity-based standards. These provisions, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, SCE&G and GENCO. 

Hazardous and Solid Wastes 

The Nuclear Waste Act required that the United States government accept and permanently dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. The Nuclear Waste Act also imposed on utilities the primary responsibility for storage of their spent nuclear fuel until the repository is available. SCE&G entered into a Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste with the United States Department of Energy (DOE) in 1983. As of December 31, 2008, the federal government has not accepted any spent fuel from Summer Station or any other utility, and it remains unclear when the repository may become available. SCE&G has on-site spent nuclear fuel storage capability until at least 2018 and expects to be able to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent nuclear fuel output for the life of Summer Station through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. 

The provisions of CERCLA authorize the EPA to require the clean-up of hazardous waste sites. In addition, the states of South Carolina and North Carolina have similar laws. The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. In addition, regulators from the EPA and other federal or state agencies periodically notify the Company that it may be required to perform or participate in the investigation and remediation of a hazardous waste site. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures may differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Such amounts are recorded in deferred debits and amortized with recovery provided through rates. The Company has assessed the following matters: 

Electric Operations 

SCE&G has been named, along with 53 others, by the EPA as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at the Alternate Energy Resources, Inc. (AER) Superfund site located in Augusta, Georgia. The EPA placed the site on the National Priorities List in April 2006. AER conducted hazardous waste storage and treatment operations from 1975 to 2000, when the site was abandoned. While operational, AER processed fuels from waste oils, treated industrial coolants and oil/water emulsions, recycled solvents and blended hazardous waste fuels. During that time, SCE&G occasionally used AER for the processing of waste solvents, oily rags and oily wastewater. The EPA and the State of Georgia have documented that a release or releases have occurred at the site leading to contamination of groundwater, surface water and soils. The EPA and the State of Georgia have conducted a preliminary assessment and site inspection. The PRPs funded a Remedial Investigation and Risk Assessment which was completed and approved by the EPA, and funded a Feasibility Study that is expected to be completed in 2009. The site has not been remediated nor has a clean-up cost been estimated. Although a basis for the allocation of clean-up costs among the PRPs is unclear, SCE&G does not believe that its involvement at this site would result in an allocation of costs that would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Any cost allocated to SCE&G arising from the remediation of this site, net of insurance recovery, is expected to be recoverable through rates. 

 Gas Distribution 

SCE&G is responsible for four decommissioned manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by-product chemicals. These sites are in various stages of investigation, remediation and monitoring under work plans approved by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC). SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities at these sites will continue until 2012 and will cost an additional $9.5 million. In addition, the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior made an initial demand to SCE&G for payment of $9.1 million for certain costs and damages relating to the MGP site in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE&G expects to recover any cost arising from the remediation of these four sites, net of insurance recovery, through rates. At December 31, 2008, deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $19.4 million. 

table of contents  

PSNC Energy is responsible for environmental clean-up at five sites in North Carolina on which MGP residuals are present or suspected. PSNC Energy's actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third-party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of $4.5 million, the estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2008. PSNC Energy expects to recover through rates any costs, net of insurance recovery, allocable to PSNC Energy arising from the remediation of these sites. 

REGULATORY MATTERS 

Material retail rate proceedings are described in more detail in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC and FERC as to the issuance of certain securities, acquisitions and other matters. 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters. 

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting.  

In May 2007, the statutory definition of fuel costs was revised to include certain variable environmental costs such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The revised definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and mercury and particulates. 

The Natural Gas Rate Stabilization Act of 2005 allows natural gas distribution companies to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC. 

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated 

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. 

The United States Congress passed the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (the Pipeline Safety Act), directing the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish the Integrity Management Rule for operations of natural gas systems with transmission pipelines located near moderate to high density populations. Of PSNC Energy’s approximately 593 miles of transmission pipeline subject to the Pipeline Safety Act, approximately 57 miles are located within these areas. Fifty percent of these miles of pipeline were required to be assessed by December 2007, and the remainder by December 2012. Through December 2008, PSNC Energy has assessed eighty-five percent of the pipeline. Depending on the assessment method used, PSNC Energy will be required to reinspect these same miles of pipeline approximately every seven years. Though cost estimates for this program were developed using various assumptions, each of which is subject to imprecision, PSNC Energy currently estimates the total cost through December 2012 to be $7.0 million for the initial assessments, not including any subsequent remediation that may be required. Costs totaling $2.3 million are being recovered through rates over a three-year period beginning November 1, 2008. The NCUC has authorized continuation of deferral accounting for certain expenses incurred to comply with DOT’s pipeline integrity management requirements until resolution of PSNC Energy’s next general rate proceeding. 

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation 

CGTC has approximately 73 miles of transmission line that are covered by the Integrity Management Rule of the Pipeline Safety Act. Though cost estimates for this project were developed using various assumptions, each of which is subject to imprecision, CGTC currently estimates the total cost to be $8.3 million for the initial assessments and any subsequent remediation required through December 2012. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations. 

table of contents  

Utility Regulation 

SCANA’s regulated utilities are subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” which require them to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate-regulated. In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of SFAS 71 and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 1B to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities, including those associated with the Company’s environmental assessment program. 

 The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.7 billion and $625 million, respectively. 

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues 

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last reading of their meters. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $185.1 million at December 31, 2008 and $175.5 million at December 31, 2007, compared to total revenues of $5.3 billion and $4.6 billion for the years 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Provisions for Bad Debts and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts 

As of each balance sheet date, the Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and records allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of expected write-offs. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts, assigned credit ratings for commercial and industrial accounts, credit scores for residential customers in Georgia when available, and consideration of actual write-off history. The distribution segments of the Company’s regulated utilities have established write-off histories and service areas that tend to improve the recoverability of accounts and enable the utilities to reliably estimate their respective provisions for bad debts. Additionally, under regulatory authority the SCE&G gas and PSNC Energy businesses are able to assign the commodity cost portion of their write-offs to their gas cost recovery mechanisms. The Company’s Retail Gas Marketing segment operates in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market in which customers may obtain service from others without necessarily paying outstanding amounts and in which there are certain limitations on the Company’s ability to effect timely shut-off of service for nonpayment. As such, estimation of the provision for bad debts for these accounts is subject to greater imprecision. 

Nuclear Decommissioning 

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years in the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers). 

table of contents  

SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $451.0 million, stated in 2006 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station. The cost estimate assumes that the site would be maintained over a period of 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use. 

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds, and interest on proceeds, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after-tax basis. 

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 

The Company follows SFAS 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” as amended by SFAS 158, “Employees’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” in accounting for the cost of its defined benefit pension plan. The Company’s plan is adequately funded under current regulations and as such, net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations-Pension Income). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and expected returns on assets. Net pension income of $15.8 million recorded in 2008 reflects the use of a 6.25% discount rate, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 9.00% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension income amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, using a discount rate of 6.00% in 2008 would have increased the Company’s pension income by $0.1 million. Had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 8.75%, the Company’s pension income for 2008 would have been reduced by $2.3 million. 

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted. 

The Company determines the fair value of a majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes, with the remaining fair value derived from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. 

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2008, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 3.0%, 7.2%, 8.9% and 9.8%, respectively, and the 2008 expected long-term rate of return of 9.0% was based on a target asset allocation of 65% with equity managers and 35% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. For 2009, the expected rate of return is 8.5%. 

As noted in Results of Operations, due to turmoil in the financial markets and the resultant declines in plan asset values in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company expects to record significant amounts of pension expense in 2009 compared to the pension income recorded in 2008 and previously. However, in February 2009, the Company was granted accounting orders by the SCPSC which will allow it to mitigate a significant portion of this increased pension expense by deferring as a regulatory asset the amount of pension expense above that which is included in current rates for both of the Company’s South Carolina regulated businesses. These costs will be deferred until future rate filings, at which time the accumulated deferred costs will be addressed prospectively. 

The pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and no contributions have been required since 1997. Management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until after 2010. 

Similar to its pension accounting, the Company follows SFAS 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” as amended by SFAS 158, in accounting for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 6.30%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $17.7 million for 2008. Had the selected discount rate been 6.05%, the expense for 2008 would have been $0.2 million higher. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

Asset Retirement Obligations 

SFAS 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” together with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,” provides guidance for recording and disclosing liabilities related to future legally enforceable obligations to retire assets (ARO). SFAS 143 applies to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from their acquisition, construction, development and normal operation. Because such obligation relates primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, SFAS 143 and FIN 47 have no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has recorded an ARO of $105 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and an ARO of $353 million for other conditional obligations related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts recorded in connection with SFAS 143 and FIN 47 are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments will be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the Company’s utilities remains in place. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions 

Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities such as those described in SFAS 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,” or as described in FIN 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” SCANA does not engage in off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, equipment and rail cars. 

Claims and Litigation 

For a description of claims and litigation see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK