Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Business Overview  

Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, with formats that include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, SIX:02, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, Runners Point and Sidestep. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes Footlocker.com, Inc. and other affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., and our international ecommerce businesses, which sell to customers through their Internet and mobile sites and catalogs.  

The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the markets in which the Company operates, epitomizing premium quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, such as Lady Foot Locker, and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, its direct-to-customer business. Through various marketing channels, including broadcast, digital, social, print, and various sports sponsorships and events, the Company reinforces its image with a consistent message — namely, that it is the destination for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment.  

Store Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Athletic Stores  

The Company operates 3,383 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses and their respective taglines:  

Foot Locker — “Approved” — Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer, which caters to the sneaker enthusiast — If it’s at Foot Locker, it’s Approved. Its stores offer the latest in athletically-inspired footwear and apparel, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker provides the best selection of premium products for a wide variety of activities, including basketball, running, and training. Additionally, we operate 199 House of Hoops, primarily a shop-in-shop concept, which sells premier basketball-inspired footwear and apparel. Foot Locker’s 1,796 stores are located in 23 countries including 971 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 125 in Canada, 606 in Europe, and a combined 94 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,500 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.  

Lady Foot Locker — “The Place for Her” — Lady Foot Locker is a U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories dedicated to active women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories brands designed for a variety of activities, including running, walking, training, and fitness. Lady Foot Locker operates 156 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.   

14 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SIX:02  — “It’s Your Time” — SIX:02 is an elevated retail concept designed for the modern woman, featuring top brands in athletic-inspired style. The apparel, footwear, and accessories assortments are carefully curated to inspire her best self-expression — in the gym and out of it. This banner has unique local fitness and fashion partners in each market and also leverages top celebrity and social influencers to connect meaningfully to all aspects of a woman’s life. SIX:02 operates 30 stores in the United States and have an average of 2,100 selling square feet.  

Kids Foot Locker — “Go Big” — Kids Foot Locker is a youth athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for young athletes. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Of its 374 stores, 349 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, 18 in Europe, and 7 in Canada. These stores have an average of 1,600 selling square feet.  

Footaction — “Own It” — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks. This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style. The primary customer is a style-obsessed, confident, influential young male who is always dressed to impress. Its 268 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on authentic, premium product. The Footaction stores have an average of 3,000 selling square feet.  

Champs Sports — “We Know Game” — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. Its product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete head-to-toe merchandising stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of its 550 stores, 519 are located throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 31 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet.  

Runners Point — “Your Way, Our Passion” — Runners Point specializes in running footwear, apparel, and equipment for performance and lifestyle purposes. Its 121 stores are located in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. This banner caters to local running communities providing technical products, training tips and access to local running and group events. The Runners Point stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.  

Sidestep — “Sneaker Lifestyle” — Sidestep is a predominantly sports fashion footwear banner. Its 88 stores are located in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 900 selling square feet.  

Direct-to-Customers  

The Company’s Direct-to-Customers segment is multi-branded and sells directly to customers through its Internet and mobile sites and catalogs. The Direct-to-Customers segment operates the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, eastbayteamsales.com, and sp24.com. Additionally, this segment includes the websites aligned with the brand names of its store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, six02.com kidsfootlocker.com, champssports.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu, runnerspoint.com, and sidestep-shoes.com). These sites offer some of the largest online selections of athletically inspired shoes and apparel, while providing a seamless link between ecommerce and store banners.  

Eastbay — “First Choice For Athletes” — Eastbay is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing serious high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed, and private-label merchandise for a broad range of sports.  

Franchise Operations  

The Company has two separate ten-year agreements with third parties for the operation of Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East and the Republic of Korea. The franchised stores located in Germany operate under the Runners Point banner. A total of 64 franchised stores were operating at January 30, 2016, of which 40 were operating in the Middle East, 16 in Germany, and 8 in the Republic of Korea. During 2015, the Company completed an acquisition from Futura Sport AG of 10 Runners Point and Sidestep stores, which were previously franchise stores. Royalty income from the franchised stores was not significant for any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above.   

15 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  

In the following tables, the Company has presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP. The Company believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for 2015 as compared with prior years and is useful in assessing the Company’s progress in achieving its long-term financial objectives. The following represents a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed throughout the Overview of Consolidated Results:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company estimates the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying its marginal tax rate to each of the respective items. During 2013, the Company recorded a benefit of $3 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, to reflect the settlement of foreign tax audits, which resulted in a reduction in tax reserves established in prior periods.  

When assessing Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), the Company adjusts its results to reflect its operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as if they were capital   

16 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation.  

The closest U.S. GAAP measure is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA remained unchanged compared with the prior year. Our ROIC improvement is due to an increase in our non-GAAP earnings before interest and income taxes, partially offset by an increase in our average invested capital, primarily related to an increase in capitalized operating leases. This reflected the inclusion of the new headquarters lease and the effect of opening larger stores supporting the various shop-in-shop initiatives.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Represents net income of $541 million, $520 million, and $429 million divided by average total assets of $3,676 million, $3,532 million, and $3,427 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.    

  (2) See below for the calculation of ROIC.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (3) The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.5 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. The capitalized operating leases and related income statements amounts disclosed above do not reflect the requirements of the recently issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, Leases.    

  (4) The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented.    

Overview of Consolidated Results  

In March 2015, the Company updated its long-range plan and long-term financial objectives as presented below. The following represents our results and our progress towards meeting the updated objectives. Non-GAAP results are presented for all the periods.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

17 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Highlights of our 2015 financial performance include:  

  • Sales and comparable-store sales, as noted in the table below, both increased and continued to benefit from exciting assortments and enhanced store formats across our various banners, as well as improved performance of the Company’s store banner.com websites.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  • The following represents the percentage of sales from each of the major product categories:    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  • Sales from the Direct-to-Customers segment increased 9.1 percent to $944 million, compared with $865 million in 2014 and increased 60 basis points as a percentage of total sales to 12.7 percent. The direct business has been steadily increasing over the last several years, led by the growth in the store banners’ ecommerce sales.    

  • Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, increased by 60 basis points to 33.8 percent in 2015. The improvement was driven by a decrease in the occupancy and buyers’ expense rate coupled with an increase in the merchandise margin rate. These reflect effective leverage on higher sales and a lower markdown rate.    

  • SG&A expenses on a constant currency basis were 19.2 percent of sales, a decrease of 70 basis points as compared with the prior year, as we continued to diligently manage expenses.    

  • EBIT margin was 12.8 percent, surpassing the long-term financial objective and reflecting the strong earnings generated during 2015.    

  • Net income on a non-GAAP basis was $606 million, or $4.29 diluted earnings per share, an increase of 19.8 percent from the prior-year period.    

  • The Company ended the year in a strong financial position. At year end, the Company had $891 million of cash and cash equivalents, net of debt and obligations under capital leases. Cash and cash equivalents at January 30, 2016 were $1,021 million, representing an increase of $54 million as compared with last year. This improvement reflects earnings strength and the successful execution of various key initiatives noted in the items below.    

  • Net cash provided by operating activities was $745 million, representing a $33 million increase over last year.    

  • Cash capital expenditures during 2015 totaled $228 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 209 stores, the build-out of approximately 100 new stores, as well as other technology and infrastructure projects.    

  • During 2015 we returned significant value to our shareholders. Dividends totaling $139 million were declared and paid during 2015, and a total of 6.7 million shares were repurchased under our share repurchase program at a cost of $419 million.    

  • ROIC increased to 15.8 percent as compared to the prior year result of 15.0 percent, reflecting profitability improvements and a disciplined approach to capital spending.     

18 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Summary of Consolidated Statements of Operations  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales of stores that were open at the period-end and had been open for more than one year. The computation of comparable-store sales also includes the sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment. Stores opened or closed during the period are not included in the comparable-store base; however, stores closed temporarily for relocation or remodeling are included. Computations exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations.  

Sales of $7,412 million in 2015 increased by 3.6 percent from sales of $7,151 million in 2014, this represented a comparable-store sales increase of 8.5 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 8.9 percent as compared with 2014. Sales of $7,151 million in 2014 increased by 9.9 percent from sales of $6,505 million in 2013, this represented a comparable-store sales increase of 8.0 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and sales of Runners Point Group, sales increased 8.5 percent as compared with 2013.  

Gross Margin  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The gross margin rate improved by 60 basis points during 2015 as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, the gross margin rate improved by 70 basis points in 2015. The improvement was driven by both an improved merchandise margin rate and a decrease in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate reflecting improved sales leverage. The improvement in the merchandise margin rate primarily reflected an enhanced ability to achieve full-priced selling, as fewer markdowns were needed due to the freshness of inventory.  

Gross margin in 2014 improved 40 basis points to 33.2 percent as compared with 2013. This improvement reflected a decrease in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate, which reflected improved leverage of primarily fixed costs. Merchandise margin declined by 30 basis points in 2014 as the cost of merchandise increased as compared with 2013. This primarily reflected the effect of lower initial markups driven by supplier and category mix, and lower shipping and handling margin, partially offset by lower markdowns.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

19 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $72 million for 2015 as compared with 2014. The increase was driven by higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. As a percentage of sales, SG&A improved 80 basis points representing improved leverage on our sales increase. Consistent with the prior year, this improvement reflects effective expense management, specifically store wage improvements due to productivity gains reflecting the continued utilization of hiring and scheduling tools.  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $101 million for 2014 as compared with 2013. Runners Point Group, which was acquired in early July 2013, represented an incremental $39 million in expenses in 2014. Additionally, the Company incurred $2 million in integration costs during 2014. Excluding these items, the increase was driven by higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. As a percentage of sales, SG&A improved 60 basis points representing improved leverage on our sales increase. This improvement reflected continued effective expense management, including store wages, which benefitted from the utilization of hiring and scheduling tools, as well as enhanced associate training.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, depreciation and amortization increased $17 million in 2015. On a constant currency basis, the increases in each year presented reflect increased capital spending on store improvements, our digital sites and other various technologies. In addition, the 2014 amount included $2 million of capital accrual adjustments made during the third quarter of 2014, which reduced depreciation and amortization.  

Pension Litigation Charge  

During the third quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $100 million pension litigation charge ($61 million after-tax or $0.43 per diluted share). This charge relates to a class action in which the plaintiffs alleged that the Company failed to properly disclose the effects of the 1996 conversion of the retirement plan to a defined benefit plan with a cash balance formula. In September 2015, the court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and issued a decision ordering that the pension plan be reformed. The Company is appealing the court’s decision, and the judgment has been stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The Company’s reasonable estimate of this liability is a range between $100 million and $200 million, with no amount within that range more probable than any other amount. Therefore, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million. Please see Item 8. “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 23, Legal Proceedings for further information.  

Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net interest expense decreased by $1 million in 2015 as compared with 2014, reflecting increased income due to higher interest rates. Net interest expense in 2014 was essentially unchanged from 2013. The Company did not have any short-term borrowings, other than amounts outstanding in connection with capital leases, for any of the periods presented.   

20 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2015 was 35.4 percent, as compared with 35.7 percent in 2014. The Company regularly assesses the adequacy of the provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes. As a result, the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted due to new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitations. The effective tax rate for 2015 and 2014 includes reserve releases totaling $4 million and $5 million, respectively, due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations.  

In 2015, the Company recorded a pension-related litigation charge of $100 million with a related tax benefit of $39 million. This litigation charge reduced the overall effective rate because it reduced the proportion of the Company’s worldwide income taxed in the United States, where the tax rates are the highest.  

Excluding the reserve releases in 2015 and in 2014 and the effect of the pension litigation charge, the effective tax rate for 2015 was essentially unchanged as compared with 2014.  

The effective tax rate for 2014 was 35.7 percent, as compared with 35.3 percent in 2013. Excluding the reserve releases, the effective tax rate for 2014 increased as compared with 2013 primarily due to the higher proportion of income earned in the United States, which is a higher tax jurisdiction.  

Segment Information  

The Company’s two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, are based on its method of internal reporting. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit reflects income before income taxes, pension litigation charge, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

21 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2015 compared with 2014  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased 8.6 percent. Comparable-store sales increased by 7.6 percent. Foot Locker Europe and Foot Locker Asia Pacific led the comparable-stores sales increase. Foot Locker Europe generated double digit comparable-store gains in footwear, apparel, and accessories. The increase in footwear was primarily related to sales of classic court styles, lifestyle running, and men’s basketball. Apparel sales experienced gains in both the branded and private label categories.  

The strong performance internationally was partially offset by the underperformance of the Runners Point and Sidestep stores. The sales decline at our Runners Point and Sidestep stores reflected the continued segmentation process and the overreliance on a few key running styles. Our segmentation process includes better defining product offerings and executing upon our multi-banner strategy in the European market. We are broadening the assortment in the Runners Point stores beyond performance running to include more lifestyle running products, while the Sidestep stores are being shifted to lifestyle and casual footwear. We continue to refine this segmentation strategy, which we believe will position these banners to contribute to our further success in Europe.  

Domestically, sales increases were led by Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker with all formats generating a comparable-store sales increase. Running and basketball were the strongest drivers of footwear sales. The Jordan brand, as well as the rise of new marquee styles contributed to the growth in the basketball category. Children’s footwear sales also performed well across all of the divisions. Sales continue to benefit from the expansion of shop-in-shop partnerships with our key vendors. The Company opened more than 40 shop-in-shops during the year, including 21 House of Hoops shops in partnership with Nike.  

While Lady Foot Locker/SIX:02’s overall sales declined slightly in 2015, the combined banners produced a mid-single digit comparable-store sales gain, the seventh consecutive quarter with a comparable-store sales gain. The comparable-store gain was led by both footwear and apparel, partially offset by a decline in accessories. The overall sales decline reflects 42 Lady Foot Locker store closures, partially offset by the opening of 15 SIX:02 stores during the year. The SIX:02 banner provides the female customer with elevated, athletic-inspired product assortments featuring top brands. During 2015, we continued to work with our vendors to refine this assortment to include more fashion styles. This initiative, as well other actions to promote brand development, will continue into 2016.  

Champs Sports generated a low single digit comparable-store sales increase driven by gains in footwear sales partially offset by declines in apparel and accessories. The decline in apparel primarily reflects the continuation of the customer’s shift away from licensed apparel.  

Division profit increased by $95 million to $872 million in 2015 as compared with last year reflecting higher sales and an improved gross margin rate. Variable expenses, such as store wages, were also diligently managed, resulting in an improved SG&A rate. Due to the underperformance of the Runners Point and Sidestep stores during 2015, an impairment review was performed. The review resulted in an impairment charge totaling $4 million, which was recorded to write down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 61 stores.   

22 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2014 compared with 2013  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro and Canadian dollar, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 9.4 percent in 2014. Comparable-store sales increased by 6.7 percent. This segment included $133 million of incremental sales related to the Runners Point stores, which were acquired in early July 2013. Excluding the sales of the Runners Point stores, the comparable-store gain was primarily driven by Kids Foot Locker, Foot Locker U.S., Footaction, and Foot Locker Europe. While Lady Foot Locker’s overall sales declined in 2014, the banner generated a comparable-store gain for the year. The shift into more performance oriented assortments has resonated with our customers, as both footwear and apparel grew on a comparable-store basis. The overall Lady Foot Locker sales decrease in 2014 primarily reflected a net decline of 44 stores.  

Basketball, running, and children’s footwear were strong drivers of sales increases. Sales of basketball footwear were driven by Jordan and key marquee player styles, while running shoes from Nike and Adidas had strong results. Additionally, children’s footwear continued to perform well across multiple divisions. Apparel sales were challenging primarily in Foot Locker Europe and Champs Sports, as customers have shifted away from certain lifestyle and licensed apparel programs, which had previously driven strong results. This segment benefitted from strong banner differentiation, which has created unique store designs and product assortments which have resonated with customers and enhanced the shopping experience.  

Included in 2014 division profit was a $1 million impairment charge related to the write-down of a trade name for our stores operating in the Republic of Ireland, reflecting historical and projected underperformance. Additionally, a $1 million charge was recorded to fully write down the value of a private-label brand acquired as part of the Runners Point Group acquisition, as a result of exiting the product line. The overall division profit improvement in 2014 primarily reflected higher sales, an improved gross margin rate, and effective control over variable expenses, such as store wages.  

Direct-to-Customers  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2015 compared with 2014  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment increased 10.6 percent as compared with the prior year, while comparable sales increased by 14.4 percent. The increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance of the Company’s domestic store-banner websites, as well as growth in our international ecommerce business, particularly in Europe. Of the total increase, sales from our U.S. store-banner websites comprised the majority of the increase. The growth in ecommerce reflects the continued elevation of the connection between the in-store experience and the banner websites, as well as the development of features and functionality to deliver an enhanced digital experience. These increases were partially offset by the 2014 closure of the CCS direct business. The strongest category for this segment was footwear, led by basketball and casual styles. Apparel increased slightly as compared with the prior year, which primarily reflected gains in the branded apparel category.  

This segment generated a division profit increase of $33 million as compared with 2014, which represented a division profit margin improvement of 240 basis points. The increase was the result of strong flow-through of sales to profit, resulting from improved gross margins due to more full-price selling and effective expense management. The improvement in gross margin was due, in part, to the fact that 2014 was negatively affected by the liquidation of the CCS merchandise. Division profit in 2015 included a $1 million impairment charge to write down the value of the SP24.com ecommerce trade name, which was acquired with the Runners Point Group. SP24.com is a clearance website that has been deemphasized as we focus on full-priced selling on the websites aligned with the stores banners.   

23 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2014 compared with 2013  

Comparable sales increased 17.8 percent as compared to 2013, led by basketball and running footwear. The Direct-to-Customers segment included $18 million of incremental sales related to the ecommerce division of Runners Point Group, which the Company acquired during the second quarter of 2013. Excluding those sales, the increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance related to the Company’s store-banner websites both in the U.S. and in Europe, as well as increased Eastbay sales. Of the total increase, sales from our U.S. store-banner websites comprised the majority of the increase, which reflected the continued success of several initiatives, including the improvement of connectivity of the store banners to the ecommerce sites, enhancements to the mobile ecommerce sites, investments in technology to improve the shopping experience, and investments in making the sites more engaging. These increases were offset, in part, by a decline in the CCS business, which transitioned to the Eastbay banner during the third quarter of 2014.  

Division profit increased by $25 million as compared to 2013, representing a division profit margin improvement of 90 basis points. The 2014 results included a $2 million impairment charge related to the CCS business, which was triggered by the Company’s decision to transition the skate business to the Eastbay banner. Gross margin was negatively affected by the liquidation of the CCS merchandise and the effects of providing additional free shipping offers. Notwithstanding this, the increase in division profit was the result of strong flow-through of sales to profit and good expense management.  

Corporate Expense  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $11 million, $13 million, and $12 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

Corporate expense decreased by $4 million in 2015 as compared with the prior year. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense decreased by $2 million. The annual adjustment of the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions reduced corporate expense by $5 million. These decreases were offset by $3 million of costs incurred in late 2015 relating to the spring 2016 relocation of our corporate headquarters within New York City.  

Corporate expense increased by $5 million in 2014 as compared with 2013. This increase was primarily related to incentive compensation and legal costs, which increased $8 million and $2 million, respectively. Additionally, depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense increased by $1 million. These increases were partially offset by the annual adjustment to the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions, which reduced corporate expense by $4 million. In addition, acquisition and integration costs related to Runners Point Group were $4 million less in 2014 than in 2013.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  

The Company’s primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from earnings, while the principal uses of cash have been: to fund inventory and other working capital requirements; to finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, Internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; to make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and to fund other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies.  

The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. Management believes its cash, cash equivalents, and future cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund these requirements.   

24 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

As of January 30, 2016, the Company had $1,021 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $608 million was held in foreign jurisdictions. Because we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from potential future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Depending on the source, amount, and timing of a repatriation, some tax may be payable. The Company believes that its cash invested domestically and future domestic cash flows are sufficient to satisfy domestic requirements.  

The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases and retirement of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. As of January 30, 2016, approximately $637 million remained available under the Company’s current $1 billion share repurchase program.  

On February 17, 2016, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share to be paid on April 29, 2016, representing a 10 percent increase over the Company’s previous quarterly per share amount.  

As discussed further in the Legal Proceedings note under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million ($61 million after-tax) in 2015. In light of the uncertainties involved in this matter, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution will not differ from the amount currently accrued by the Company. The $100 million charge has been classified as a long-term liability due to the uncertainty involved with the resolution of this litigation, as the appeals process can be lengthy. The pension plan is sufficiently funded to absorb a $100 million liability and, accordingly, we do not anticipate the need to make any additional pension contributions in the near term in connection with this matter. The timing and the amount of any future contributions to the pension plan are dependent on the funded status of the plan and various other factors, such as interest rates and the performance of the plan’s assets.  

Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key suppliers for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations.  

Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key suppliers. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key suppliers. In 2015 and 2014, the Company purchased approximately 90 percent and 89 percent, respectively, of its merchandise from its top five suppliers and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. Approximately 72 percent in 2015 and 73 percent in 2014 was purchased from one supplier — Nike, Inc.  

The Company’s 2016 planned capital expenditures and lease acquisition costs are approximately $297 million. Planned capital expenditures are $292 million and planned lease acquisition costs related to the Company’s operations in Europe are $5 million. The Company’s planned capital expenditures reflect $210 million focused on elevating the customer’s in-store experience. It also includes the remodeling and expansion of over 250 existing stores, the planned opening of approximately 90 stores primarily related to Kids Foot Locker in the U.S. and Europe, as well as the continued expansion of the Foot Locker banner in Europe. Planned spending for 2016 also includes $82 million for the development of information systems, including a new ecommerce order management system, websites, infrastructure, and costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters within New York City. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it.   

25 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure)  

In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, the Company uses free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength of the Company and its ability to generate cash. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). The Company believes the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from the Company’s underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management.  

Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The amount provided by operating activities reflects income adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, share-based compensation expense and related tax benefits.  

The improvements in both 2015 and 2014 represented the Company’s earnings strength and working capital improvements. During 2015, the Company contributed $4 million to its U.S. qualified pension plans as compared with $6 million contributed to its Canadian qualified pension plan in 2014. Pension contributions were $2 million in 2013. The amounts and timing of pension contributions are dependent on several factors, including asset performance. Cash paid for income taxes was $283 million, $251 million, and $175 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

Investing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital expenditures in 2015 were $228 million, an increase of $38 million compared with the prior year. Current year capital expenditures primarily related to the remodeling of 209 stores, the build-out of 111 new stores, preparing for our corporate headquarters relocation within New York City, and other corporate technology projects. Capital expenditures in 2014 were $190 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 319 stores, the build-out of 86 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades. This was a decrease of $16 million as compared with 2013, as the timing of certain projects shifted to 2015. As of the end of fiscal 2015, approximately 30 percent of our domestic Foot Locker and Champs Sports stores and approximately 20 percent of the Footaction stores have been remodeled to the current store format.  

During the third quarter of 2015, the Company completed an asset acquisition for $2 million involving 10 previously franchised Runners Point and Sidestep stores in Switzerland.   

26 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

During 2014, the Company sold real estate for proceeds of $5 million and recorded a gain on sale of $4 million. In addition, maturities of short-term investments totaled $9 million in 2014. This compares with net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $37 million during 2013. The activity during 2013 included the purchase of Runners Point Group for $81 million, net of cash acquired.  

Financing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of the Company’s return to shareholders initiatives, including its share repurchase program and cash dividend payments, as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During 2015, 2014, and 2013, the Company repurchased 6,693,100 shares, 5,888,698 shares, and 6,424,286 shares of its common stock under its share repurchase programs, respectively. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends representing a quarterly rate of $0.25, $0.22, and $0.20 per share in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

Offsetting the amounts above were proceeds received from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $69 million, $22 million, and $30 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. In connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $35 million, $12 million, and $9 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

The financing activity also includes payments on capital lease obligations of $2 million, $3 million, and $1 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. These obligations were recorded in connection with the acquisition of the Runners Point Group.  

Capital Structure  

The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million asset based revolving credit facility maturing on January 27, 2017. In addition, during the term of the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement, the Company may make up to four requests for additional credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million. Interest is based on the LIBOR rate in effect at the time of the borrowing plus a 1.25 to 1.50 percent margin depending on certain provisions as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement. The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets, but excluding intellectual property. The Company is not required to comply with any financial covenants as long as there are no outstanding borrowings. With regard to the payment of dividends and share repurchases, there are no restrictions if the Company is not borrowing and the payments are funded through cash on hand. If the Company is borrowing, Availability as of the end of each fiscal month during the subsequent projected six fiscal months following the payment must be at least 20 percent of the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and the Borrowing Base (all terms as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement). The Company’s management currently does not expect to borrow under the facility in 2016, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.   

27 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Credit Rating  

As of March 24, 2016, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB+ and Ba1, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes Ba2.  

Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure)  

For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.5 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.  

The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s cash and cash equivalents increased by $54 million during 2015, which was the result of strong cash flow generation from operating activities. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent increased 400 basis points in 2015, reflecting the effect of lease renewals and the obligation associated with the New York City office headquarters, partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations.   

28 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at January 30, 2016:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $11 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt and Obligations Under Capital Leases note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 20 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown.    

  (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 30, 2016 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. The amount presented in the table represents the Company’s 2016 U.S. qualified pension contribution of $25 million. Other than this liability, other amounts (including the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits of $36 million, as well as penalties and interest of $2 million) have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known has not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (4) Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 30, 2016. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain suppliers in response to shifts in consumer preferences.    

  (5) Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements.    

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The majority of the Company’s contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future scheduled lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of January 30, 2016 are described in the table under Contractual Obligations and Commitments above and with additional information in the Leases note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. Our policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.   

29 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Critical Accounting Policies  

Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies.  

In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

Merchandise Inventories and Cost of Sales  

Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts.  

Judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current retail environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Tangible Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

The Company performs an impairment review when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible assets may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s strategic long-range plans, in performing an impairment review. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results. During 2015, the Company conducted an impairment review of the Runners Point and Sidestep store-level assets, which resulted in an impairment charge of $4 million.  

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of its fiscal year or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The review of impairment consists of either using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the assets is less than their respective carrying values or a two-step impairment test, if necessary.  

In performing the qualitative assessment, management considers many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. If, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed using a   

30 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

two-step test. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company uses a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and a market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests, or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company evaluates the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units.  

In 2015, the Company elected to perform its review of goodwill using a qualitative approach, and no reporting units were evaluated using the two-step impairment method. Based on the qualitative assessment performed, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and that there are no reporting units at risk of impairment. In 2014, the Company elected to perform the first step of the two-step impairment analysis in connection with its annual review. This analysis concluded that the fair value of all the reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values.  

Owned trademarks and trade names that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. Our impairment evaluation for indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of either a qualitative or quantitative assessment, similar to the process for goodwill.  

If the results of the qualitative assessment indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible is less than its carrying amount, or if we elect to proceed directly to a quantitative assessment, we calculate the fair value using a discounted cash flow method, based on the relief-from-royalty concept, and compare the fair value to the carrying value to determine if the asset is impaired. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates, and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Our 2015 annual assessment using the quantitative method did not result in an impairment charge. However, during the fourth quarter of 2015, as a result of a triggering event, we recorded an impairment charge for indefinite-lived intangibles of $1 million.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions, listed below, can materially affect the fair value of the options.  

Risk-free Interest Rate — The risk-free interest rate is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued.  

Expected Volatility — The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would cause a 2 percent change to the fair value.   

31 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Expected Term — The expected term of options granted is estimated using historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 8 to 9 percent depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively.  

Dividend Yield — The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 6 percent.  

Share-based compensation expense is recorded for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on the Company’s historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  

Legal Contingencies  

The Company is exposed to various legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The accrual is recorded based on the reasonably estimable loss or range of loss. When no point of loss is more likely than another, we record the lowest amount in the estimated range of loss and disclose the estimated range. In 2015, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $100 million related to its pension plan litigation.  

There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. Management believes the accruals recorded in the Company’s consolidated financial statements properly reflect loss exposures that are both probable and reasonably estimable. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.  

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

Management reviews all assumptions used to determine its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans. The assumptions used are:  

Long-Term Rate of Return — The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2015 pension expense was 6.25 percent.  

A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2015 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of the inactive participants.  

Discount Rate — An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2015 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans was 4.1 percent for both.   

32 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Changing the weighted-average discount rate by 50 basis points would have changed the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at January 30, 2016 by approximately $30 million and $33 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $1 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2015 pension expense or postretirement income.  

Trend Rate — The Company maintains two postretirement medical plans, one covering certain executive officers and key employees of the Company (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $2 million.  

With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.  

Mortality Assumptions — The mortality table used to determine the pension obligation in 2015 and 2014 was the RP 2000 mortality table with generational projection using scale AA for both males and females. This mortality table was chosen after considering alternative tables including the RP 2014 table. We chose the RP 2000 table because it resulted in the closest match to the Company’s actual experience. For the SERP Medical Plan, the mortality assumption was updated to the RPH 2015 table with generational projection using MP 2015, which represents the most recent study from the Society of Actuaries. The RPH 2015 table with generational projection using MP 2014 was used in the prior year.  

The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $1 million and pension expense of approximately $20 million in 2016.  

Income Taxes  

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon the Company’s strategic long-range plans. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2015 would have resulted in a change of $5 million to the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.  

The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.  

The Company expects its 2016 effective tax rate to approximate 36.5 percent, excluding the effect of any nonrecurring items that may occur. The actual tax rate will vary depending primarily on the level and mix of income earned in the United States as compared with its international operations.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

Descriptions of the recently issued accounting principles, and the accounting principles adopted by the Company during the year ended January 30, 2016, if any, are included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”   

33 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key suppliers for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier), cybersecurity breaches, pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business and strategic plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with global product sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution.  

For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk