Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

General

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company") is a global professional services firm offering clients advice and solutions in risk, strategy and people. Its businesses include: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and Investment related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management, economic and brand consultancy. With nearly 65,000 colleagues worldwide and annual revenue of more than $14 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 130 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes health, retirement, talent and investments consulting services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The accounting policies used for each segment are the same as those used for the consolidated financial statements.

This Management's Discussion & Analysis ("MD&A") contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" at the outset of this report.

Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

In 2017, the Company’s results of operations and earnings per share were impacted negatively, in part, as a result of two significant items in 2017:

•U.S. tax reform - On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA"). The TCJA provides for a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21% and the creation of a territorial tax system. The TCJA also changes the deductibility of certain expenses, primarily executive officers compensation. An aggregate charge of $460 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 as a result of the enactment of the TCJA. The TCJA provides for a transition to the territorial system through a deemed repatriation tax (the "transition tax") on undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company recorded a provisional charge of $240 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 as an estimate of U.S. transition taxes and ancillary effects, including state taxes and foreign withholding taxes related to the change in permanent reinvestment status with respect to our pre-2018 foreign earnings. This transition tax is payable over eight years. The reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, reduces the value of the U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities, accordingly, a net charge of $220 million was recorded. A more complete discussion of the TCJA and its impact on the Company’s results is included under the heading "Income Taxes".

•Pension Settlement charge in the U.K. - The Defined Benefit Pension Plans in the U.K. allow participants an option for the payment of a lump sum distribution from plan assets before retirement in full satisfaction of the retirement benefits due to the participant as well as any survivor’s benefit. The Company’s policy under applicable U.S. GAAP is to treat these lump sum payments as a partial settlement of the plan liability if they exceed the sum of service cost plus interest cost components of net period pension cost of a plan for the year ("settlement thresholds"). The amount of lump sum payments through December 31, 2017 exceeded the settlement thresholds in two of the U.K. plans. This resulted in a non-cash settlement charge of $54 million recorded in December 2017, of which approximately 85% impacted Risk and Insurance Services.

Consolidated operating income increased 7%, to $2.9 billion, in 2017 compared with $2.7 billion in 2016, reflecting the combined impact of a 6% increase in revenue and a 6% increase in expenses as compared with the prior year. Income before income taxes increased 7%, to $2.6 billion, reflecting the increase in operating income partly offset by higher interest expense, primarily reflecting an increase in average debt outstanding during the year resulting from the issuance of $1 billion of senior notes in January 2017, partly offset by the repayment of $250 million of senior notes in April 2017.

Diluted earnings per share was $2.87 in 2017, compared with $3.38 in 2016. The decrease reflects a significantly higher effective tax rate in 2017, primarily resulting from an aggregate provisional charge of $460 million related to the enactment in December 2017 of U.S. tax reform and a pension settlement charge, which are discussed above. The impact from U.S. tax reform was partly offset by discrete tax items during the year, in particular the benefit from the required change in accounting for tax consequences related to stock compensation. The $460 million provisional charge related to U.S. tax reform reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.89.

Average diluted shares outstanding for 2017 decreased to 519 million, compared with 524 million during 2016. Shares issued related to the vesting of share awards and the exercise of employee stock options, were more than offset by share repurchases during the year. Average shares outstanding in 2017 was also impacted by the change in accounting for stock compensation. Under the applicable guidance, the excess tax benefits for unvested shares and unexercised stock options are no longer included in the calculation of common stock equivalents ("CSEs") under the treasury stock method. This had the effect of increasing CSEs by approximately 1.7 million shares in 2017.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $118 million, or 7%, in 2017 compared with 2016. Revenue increased 7%, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 4% increase from acquisitions. Expense increased 7% or 2% on an underlying basis in 2017 compared with 2016.

Consulting operating income increased $71 million, or 6%, to $1.2 billion in 2017 compared with 2016, reflecting the combined impact of 5% growth for both revenue and expense.

32

Consolidated operating income increased 10% to $2.7 billion in 2016 compared with $2.4 billion in 2015, reflecting the combined impact of a 2% increase in revenue and a 1% increase in expenses as compared to the prior year.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $214 million, or 14% in 2016 compared with 2015. Revenue increased 4% reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 3% increase from acquisitions, partly offset by a decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation of 2%. Expense increased 1% in 2016 compared with 2015.

Consulting operating income increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting the combined impact of 1% revenue growth, while expense was flat.

33

Consolidated Revenue and Expense

Revenue - Components of Change

The Company conducts business in many countries. As a result, foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, certain other items such as the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, on the Company’s operating revenues by segment was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions, transfers among businesses and the deconsolidation of Marsh India.

Effective January 1, 2017, Mercer established a Wealth business reflecting a unified client strategy for its former Retirement and Investment business. The 2016 information in the chart above has been conformed to the current presentation.

* Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

34

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions and transfers among businesses. For 2015, the impact of a $37 million gain from the disposal of Mercer's U.S. defined contribution recordkeeping business is included in acquisitions/dispositions in Mercer's Defined Benefit Consulting & Administration business.

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

Revenue

Consolidated revenue was $14 billion in 2017, an increase of 6%, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 7% in 2017 compared with 2016, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 3% and 4% on an underlying basis at Marsh and Guy Carpenter, respectively, as compared with 2016. The Consulting segment's revenue increased 5% compared with 2016, or 4% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 2% and 7% on an underlying basis at Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, respectively, as compared with 2016.

35

Consolidated revenue was $13.2 billion in 2016, an increase of 2%, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4% in 2016 compared with 2015, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 3% and 2% on an underlying basis at Marsh and Guy Carpenter, respectively, as compared with 2015. The Consulting segment's revenue increased 1% on a reported basis compared with 2015, or 3% on an underlying basis. Both Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group's revenue increased 3% on an underlying basis compared with 2015.

Operating Expense

Consolidated operating expenses increased 6% in 2017 compared with 2016, or 2% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying expenses was primarily due to higher base salaries and incentive compensation costs, and the pension settlement charge discussed previously, partly offset by lower costs related to liabilities for errors and omissions.

Consolidated operating expenses increased 1% in 2016 compared with the same period in 2015 on both a reported and underlying basis. The underlying expense increase reflects higher base salary costs, higher amortization of identified intangible assets and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the Company's post-65 retiree medical reimbursement plan in the United States (the "RRA Plan"), which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, partly offset by decreases in defined benefit plan pension expense and contingent acquisition consideration expense.

Risk and Insurance Services

In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter.

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiates with clients. Revenues can be affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission-based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds/reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the type of risk, coverage required and service provided by the Company and ultimately, the extent of the risk placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next can be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk retention and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients.

Marsh also receives other compensation from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions. This compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota share, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions. Marsh and Guy Carpenter also receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically require segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts presented earlier in this MD&A.

36

The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 7% in 2017 compared with 2016, due to a 3% growth in underlying revenue and 4% growth from acquisitions.

In Marsh, revenue increased 7% to $6.4 billion in 2017 as compared with 2016, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 5% increase from acquisitions. U.S./Canada had underlying revenue growth of 4%. International operations increased 2% on an underlying basis, reflecting increases of 6% in Asia Pacific and 7% in Latin America, while growth in EMEA was flat.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 4% to $1.2 billion in 2017 compared with 2016, for both a reported and underlying basis.

Fiduciary interest income was $39 million in 2017 compared with $26 million in 2016 due to the combined effect of higher average invested funds and higher interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance Services segment completed seven acquisitions during 2017. Information regarding those acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4% in 2016 compared with 2015, as a 3% growth in underlying revenue and 3% growth from acquisitions was partly offset by a 2% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. 

In Marsh, revenue of $6 billion increased 4% in 2016 as compared with 2015, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 4% increase from acquisitions, offset by a 2% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase reflects growth in all major geographies. International operations had underlying revenue growth of 3% reflecting increases of 2% in EMEA, 3% in Asia Pacific and 8% in Latin America, while U.S./Canada increased 2%.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 2% to $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with 2015, for both a reported and underlying basis.

Fiduciary interest income was $26 million in 2016 compared with $21 million in 2015 due to the combined effect of higher average invested funds and higher interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance Services segment completed nine acquisitions during 2016.

Expense

Expense in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 7% in 2017 compared with 2016, reflecting a 2% increase on an underlying basis and a 5% increase from acquisitions. The underlying expense increase is primarily due to higher base salaries, incentive compensation costs and the U.K. pension settlement charge discussed previously, partly offset by lower costs related to liabilities for errors and omissions.

Expense in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 1% on both a reported and underlying basis in 2016 compared with 2015. The impact of foreign currency translation reduced expenses by 3%, which was offset by a 3% increase related to acquisitions. The increase in underlying expense reflects higher base salary and incentive compensation costs, higher identified intangible asset amortization expense and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA Plan which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, offset by a decrease in defined benefit plan pension expense and lower contingent consideration costs related to acquisitions.

37

Consulting

Effective January 1, 2017, Mercer merged its investment and retirement businesses into a newly-created wealth business. We believe this combination better aligns Mercer’s investment management capabilities globally. 

The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups, Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of health, retirement, talent and investments. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management, economic and brand consulting services.

The major component of revenue in the Consulting business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services consists principally of fees based on assets under management or administration.

Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services are significantly affected by the level of assets under management or administration and securities market performance.

For the investment management business, revenues from the majority of funds are included on a gross basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP and include reimbursable expenses incurred by professional staff and sub-advisory fees, and the related expenses are included in other operating expenses.

The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Consulting revenue in 2017 increased 5% compared with 2016, reflecting a 4% increase on an underlying basis and 2% growth from acquisitions. Mercer's revenue increased 5% to $4.5 billion over the prior year, or 2% on an underlying basis. Mercer's year over year revenue comparison also reflects an increase of 2% from acquisitions. The underlying revenue growth reflects an increase in Career of 5%, Health of 2% and Wealth of 2%. Within Wealth, Investment Management & Related Services increased 10% while Defined Benefit Consulting & Administration decreased 2% compared with the prior year. Oliver Wyman Group’s revenue increased 7% in 2017 compared with 2016, for both a reported and underlying basis.

The Consulting segment completed three acquisitions during 2017. Information regarding these acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Consulting revenue in 2016 increased 1% compared with 2015, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis offset by a 2% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. Mercer’s revenue of $4.3 billion was flat when compared with 2015 but increased 3% on an underlying basis. Mercer's year over year revenue comparison reflects a decrease of 2% from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue growth reflects an increase in Wealth of 2%, Health of 3% and Career of 5%. Within Wealth, Investment Management & Related Services increased 6% while Defined Benefit Consulting & Administration was flat compared with 2015. Oliver Wyman Group’s revenue increased 2% in 2016 

38

compared with 2015, reflecting an increase of 3% on an underlying basis, partly offset by a decrease of 2% from the impact of foreign currency translation.

The Consulting segment completed six acquisitions during 2016.

Expense

Consulting expense in 2017 increased 5% compared with 2016, reflecting an increase of 3% on an underlying basis and a 3% increase from the impact of acquisitions. The increase in underlying expense reflects higher base salaries, asset based fees and outside service costs, partly offset by lower severance costs and lower costs related to liabilities for errors and omissions.

Consulting expense in 2016 was essentially flat compared with 2015, reflecting an increase of 2% on an underlying basis offset by a 2% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in underlying expense reflects higher base salaries and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, partly offset by lower defined benefit plan pension expense.

Corporate and Other

Corporate expense in 2017 was $189 million compared with $192 million in 2016. The decrease in expense is primarily due to lower consulting, occupancy and general insurance costs.

Corporate expense in 2016 was $192 million compared with $195 million in 2015, reflecting lower executive compensation and lower defined benefit pension costs. 

Other Corporate Items

Interest

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $9 million in 2017 compared with $5 million in 2016. Interest expense in 2017 was $237 million compared with $189 million in 2016. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to higher average debt outstanding in 2017.

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $5 million in 2016 compared with $13 million in 2015. The decrease is due to the combined effects of a lower level of invested funds and lower interest rates. Interest expense in 2016 was $189 million compared with $163 million in 2015 due to higher average outstanding debt in 2016.

Investment Income

The caption "Investment income (loss)" in the consolidated statements of income comprises realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments recognized in current earnings. It includes, when applicable, other-than-temporary declines in the value of debt and available-for-sale securities and equity method gains or losses on its investment in private equity funds. The Company's investments may include direct investments in insurance, consulting and related companies and investments in private equity funds. The Company recorded net investment income of $15 million in 2017 compared to less than $1 million in 2016 and $38 million in 2015. The increase in 2017 versus 2016 was primarily due to a gain on the sale of an investment and higher equity method gains related to the Company's investments in private equity funds. Net investment income in 2015 was primarily related to the general partner carried interest from Trident III. Stonepoint Capital, the investment manager of Trident III, substantially liquidated the remaining two investments of Trident III during the third quarter of 2015, which resulted in the Company recognizing its remaining deferred performance fees.

Income Taxes

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the TCJA. The TCJA provides for a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21% and the creation of a territorial tax system. The TCJA also changes the deductibility of certain expenses, primarily executive officers compensation. The Company recorded a provisional charge of $460 million related to the enactment of the TCJA. As discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements this provisional charge may be adjusted in 2018. The TCJA provides for a transition to the territorial system via a transition tax on undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company recorded a provisional charge of $240 million in the fourth quarter as an estimate of U.S. transition taxes and ancillary effects, including state taxes and foreign withholding taxes related to the 

39

change in permanent reinvestment status with respect to our pre-2018 foreign earnings. This transition tax is payable over eight years. The reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, reduces the value of the US deferred tax assets and liabilities, accordingly, a charge of $220 million was recorded. The more complete discussion of the TCJA and its impact on the Company’s results is further below.

The Company's consolidated effective tax rate was 42.9%, 27.6% and 29.1% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The effective tax rate in 2017 reflects the provisional estimate of U.S. tax reform as well as the impact of the required change in accounting for the tax effects of equity awards. The 2017, 2016 and 2015 rates also reflect foreign operations which historically have been taxed at rates below the U.S. statutory tax rate, including the effect of repatriation, as well as the impact of discrete tax matters such as tax legislation, changes in valuation allowances, nontaxable adjustments to contingent acquisition consideration and the true-up of the tax provision to amounts filed in the Company's tax returns. In 2017, pre-tax income in the U.K., Barbados, Canada, Australia, and Ireland accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total non-U.S. pre-tax income, with effective rates in those countries of 20%, 1%, 27%, 31% and 12%, respectively.

As noted above, the TCJA significantly increased income tax expense from two discrete charges discussed above. The lower U.S. corporate rate is expected to provide a significant ongoing benefit to our effective tax rate and U.S. cash tax liabilities due to the significantly lower U.S. statutory tax rate and the quasi-territorial system.

As a U.S. domiciled parent holding company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. is the issuer of essentially all of the Company's external indebtedness, and incurs the related interest expense in the U.S. Further, most senior executive and oversight functions are conducted in the U.S. and the associated costs are incurred primarily in the United States.

The mandatory taxation of accumulated undistributed foreign earnings through the transition tax substantially changed the economic considerations of continued permanent investment of those accumulated earnings, a key component of our global capital strategy. As a result of the transition tax, the Company anticipates repatriating the majority of the accumulated earnings that was previously intended to be permanently re-invested outside of the U.S. We continue to evaluate our global investment strategy in light of expected relief from U.S. tax reform under the new territorial tax regime for future foreign earnings.

The effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period. The rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of the Company's earnings and repatriation of cash, which may result in higher or lower effective tax rates. Losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances that affect the rate, depending on estimates of the realizability of associated deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends on generating future taxable income during the periods in which the tax benefits are deductible or creditable. Tax liabilities are determined and assessed jurisdictionally by legal entity or filing group. Certain taxing jurisdictions allow or require combined or consolidated tax filings. The Company assessed the realizability of its deferred tax assets. The Company considered all available evidence, including the existence of a recent history of losses, placing particular weight on evidence that could be objectively verified. A valuation allowance was recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized.

Changes in tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations occur frequently and may also have significant favorable or adverse impacts on our current assumptions and effective tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from its operating subsidiaries. As the Company does not have significant operations of its own, the Company is dependent upon dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations, pay dividends to stockholders, repurchase its shares and pay corporate expenses. The Company also provides financial support to its operating subsidiaries for acquisitions, investments and certain parts of their business that require liquidity, such as the capital markets business of Guy Carpenter. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities discussed below in financing cash flows.

40

The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States. Funds from those operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the United States out of annual earnings. At December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents in its foreign operations, which includes $171 million of operating funds required to be maintained for regulatory requirements or as collateral under certain captive insurance arrangements. The Company expects to continue its practice of repatriating foreign funds from its non-U.S. operating subsidiaries out of current annual earnings, and with respect to repatriating 2017 and prior earnings, it is in the process of fully evaluating such factors as its short- and long-term capital needs, acquisition and borrowing strategies, and the availability of cash for repatriation for each of its subsidiaries as it considers its permanent reinvestment assertions going forward in light of the enactment at the end of 2017 of the TCJA. During 2017, the Company recorded foreign currency translation adjustments which increased net equity by $715 million. A weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would increase the translated U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net investments in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as the translated U.S. dollar value of cash repatriations from those subsidiaries.

Cash on our consolidated balance sheets includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated balance sheets as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company.

Operating Cash Flows

The Company generated $1.9 billion of cash from operations in 2017, compared with $2.0 billion in 2016. These amounts reflect the net income of the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments, adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in working capital which relate primarily to the timing of payments of accrued liabilities or receipts of assets and pension contributions.

Pension-Related Items

Contributions

During 2017, the Company contributed $85 million to its U.S. pension plans and $229 million to non-U.S. pension plans compared to contributions of $27 million to U.S. plans and $187 million to non-U.S. plans in 2016.

In the United States, contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on ERISA guidelines and the Company generally expects to maintain a funded status of 80% or more of the liability determined under the ERISA guidelines. There was a $6 million contribution to the U.S. qualified plan to meet the ERISA funding requirement in 2017. In addition, the Company made a $50 million discretionary contribution to the U.S. qualified plan in December 2017 and $29 million of contributions to its non-qualified plans. The Company expects to contribute approximately $27 million to its U.S. pension plans in 2018.

The Company contributed $129 million to the U.K. plans in 2017, including an expense allowance of approximately $9 million. Based on the funding test carried out at November 1, 2017, the Company contributions to the U.K. plans in 2018 are expected to be approximately $22 million, including the expense allowance.

Outside the United States, the Company has a large number of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the largest of which are in the U.K., which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. plan assets at December 31, 2017. Contribution rates for non-U.S. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ significantly from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the U.K., the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the Company and the plans' trustee that typically occur every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. Currently, this results in a lower funded status than under U.S. GAAP and may result in contributions irrespective of the U.S. GAAP funded status. In November 2016, the Company and the Trustee of the U.K. Defined Benefits Plans agreed to a funding deficit recovery plan for the U.K. defined benefit pension plans. The current agreement with the Trustee sets out the annual deficit contributions which would be due based on the deficit at December 31, 2015. The funding level is subject to re-assessment, in most cases on November 1 of each year. If the funding 

41

level on November 1 is sufficient, no deficit funding contributions will be required in the following year, and the contribution amount will be deferred. The funding level was re-assessed on November 1, 2017 and no deficit funding contributions are required in 2018. The funding level will be re-assessed on November 1, 2018. As part of a long-term strategy, which depends on having greater influence over asset allocation and overall investment decisions, in November 2016 the Company renewed its agreement to support annual deficit contributions by the U.K. operating companies under certain circumstances, up to GBP 450 million over a seven-year period.

In the aggregate, the Company expects to contribute approximately $82 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans in 2018, comprising approximately $60 million to plans outside of the U.K. and $22 million to the U.K. plans.

Changes to Pension Plans

In March 2017, the Company modified its defined benefit pension plans in Canada to discontinue further benefit accruals for participants after December 31, 2017 and replaced them with a defined contribution arrangement. The Company also amended its post-retirement benefits plan in Canada so that individuals who retire after April 1, 2019 will not be eligible to participate, except in certain situations. The Company re-measured the assets and liabilities of the plans, based on assumptions and market conditions on the amendment date.

In October 2016, the Company modified its U.S. defined benefit pension plans to discontinue further benefit accruals for participants after December 31, 2016. At the same time, the Company amended its U.S. defined contribution retirement plans for most of its U.S. employees to add an automatic Company contribution equal to 4% of eligible base pay beginning on January 1, 2017. This new Company contribution, together with the Company’s current matching contribution, provides eligible U.S. employees with the opportunity to receive a total contribution of up to 7% of eligible base pay. As required under GAAP, the defined benefit plans that were significantly impacted by the modification were re-measured in October 2016 using market data and assumptions as of the modification date. The net periodic pension expense recognized in 2016 reflects the weighted average costs of the December 31, 2015 measurement and the October 2016 re-measurement. In addition, the U.S. qualified plans were merged effective December 30, 2016, since no participants would be receiving benefit accruals after December 2016.

Effective August 1, 2015, the Company amended its Ireland defined benefit pension plans to close those plans to future benefit accruals and replaced those plans with a defined contribution arrangement. The Company re-measured the assets and liabilities of the plans, based on assumptions and market conditions on the amendment date.

Changes in Funded Status and Expense

The year-over-year change in the funded status of the Company's pension plans is impacted by the difference between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets, and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses were approximately $1.8 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2017 for the U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, compared with $1.7 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2016. The increase in the U.S. was primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate used to measure plan liabilities partly offset by investment returns. The decrease in the non-U.S. plans was primarily due to higher investment returns, the impact of assumption changes and the U.K. settlement in the fourth quarter of 2017 as discussed above, partly offset by the impact of a decrease in discount rates and foreign exchange translation. In the past several years, the amount of unamortized losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates. The discount rate used to measure plan liabilities decreased in both the U.S. and the U.K. (the Company's largest plans) in 2017 and in 2016. The decreases in 2017 and 2016 followed an increase in 2015. An increase in the discount rate decreases the measured plan benefit obligation, resulting in actuarial gains, while a decrease in the discount rate increases the measured plan obligation, resulting in actuarial losses. During 2017, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 19.3% and 9.1% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively. During 2016, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 9.8% and 22.1% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively. During 2015, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had a loss of 3.9% in the U.S. and gain of 1.2% in the U.K.

42

Overall, based on the measurement at December 31, 2017, expenses related to the Company’s defined benefit plans are expected to decrease in 2018 by approximately $90 million compared to 2017. Approximately $80 million of the reduction relates to non-U.S. plans, primarily in the U.K. and in Canada. In the U.K., the net benefit credit was reduced in 2017 by the $54 million settlement charge discussed previously. The recognition of a similar charge in 2018 and the amount of such a charge, if any, is dependent upon whether participant lump sum elections reach or exceed the settlement threshold. The remaining decrease primarily relates to plans in Canada, which ceased the accrual of future benefits on January 1, 2018. Approximately half of the defined benefit expense decrease in Canada will be offset by increased costs for contributions to its defined contribution plans.

Historically, service and interest costs were estimated using a single weighted average discount rate derived from the yield curves used to measure the benefit obligations at the beginning of the period. In 2016, the Company changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for its significant non-U.S. plans. This change in approach was made to improve the correlation between the projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding yield curve spot rates and to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. The change did not impact the measurement of the plans’ total projected benefit obligation. The Company accounted for this change as a change in estimate, that was applied prospectively beginning in 2016 and resulted in pension expense being approximately $45 million lower than if the prior approach had been used.

The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.

In March 2015, the Company amended the RRA, resulting in its termination, with benefits to certain participants to be paid through December 31, 2016. As a result of the termination of the RRA plan, the Company recognized a net credit of approximately $125 million in the first quarter of 2015.

Financing Cash Flows

Net cash used for financing activities was $1.0 billion in 2017 compared with $1.1 billion used in 2016.

Debt

The Company increased outstanding debt by approximately $680 million in 2017 and $400 million in 2016.

The Company has established a short-term debt financing program of up to $1.5 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. The proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper are used for general corporate purposes. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2017.

In January 2017, the Company issued $500 million of 2.75% senior notes due in 2022 and $500 million of 4.35% senior notes due in 2047. The Company used the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which included the repayment of a $250 million debt maturity in April 2017.

In March 2016, the Company issued $350 million of 3.30% seven-year senior notes. In September 2015, the Company issued $600 million of 3.75% 10.5-year senior notes, and in March 2015, the Company issued $500 million of 2.35% five-year senior notes. The Company used the net proceeds from these issuances for general corporate purposes.

Credit Facilities

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries maintain a $1.5 billion multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus a fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. This facility expires in November 2020 and requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2017.

The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, aggregating $624 million at December 31, 2017 and $376 million at December 31, 2016. There were no 

43

outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2017 and $1.6 million of outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2016.

The Company's senior debt is currently rated A- by Standard & Poor's and Baa1 by Moody's. The Company's short-term debt is currently rated A-2 by Standard & Poor's and P-2 by Moody's. The Company carries a stable outlook from both firms.

Share Repurchases

During 2017, the Company repurchased 11.5 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $900 million at an average price per share of $77.93. In November 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in the Company’s share repurchase program, which supersedes any prior authorization, allowing management to buy back up to $2.5 billion of the Company’s common stock going forward. As of December 31, 2017, the Company remained authorized to purchase additional shares of its common stock up to a value of approximately $1.5 billion. There is no time limit on this authorization. 

During 2016, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $800 million at an average price per share of $63.18.

Dividends

The Company paid total dividends of $740 million in 2017 ($1.43 per share), $682 million in 2016 ($1.30 per share) and $632 million in 2015 ($1.18 per share).

Contingent Payments Related To Acquisitions

During 2017, the Company paid $108 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior years. These payments are split between financing and operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Payments of $81 million related to the contingent consideration liability that was recorded on the date of acquisition are reflected as financing cash flows. Payments related to increases in the contingent consideration liability subsequent to the date of acquisition of $27 million are reflected as operating cash flows. Remaining estimated future contingent consideration payments of $189 million for acquisitions completed in 2017 and in prior years are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017. The Company paid deferred purchase consideration related to prior years' acquisitions of $55 million, $54 million and $36 million in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Remaining deferred cash payments of approximately $121 million are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017.

In 2016, the Company paid $86 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods, of which $44 million was reported as financing cash flows and $42 million as operating cash flows. In 2015, the Company made $47 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods, of which $13 million was reported as financing cash flows and $34 million as operating cash flows.

Investing Cash Flows

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $956 million in 2017 compared with $1.1 billion used for investing activities in 2016. 

The Company paid $655 million and $813 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions it made during 2017 and 2016, respectively.

On February 24, 2015, Mercer purchased shares of common stock of Benefitfocus (NASDAQ:BNFT) constituting approximately 9.9% of BNFT's outstanding capital stock as of the acquisition date. The purchase price for the BNFT shares and certain other rights and other consideration was approximately $75 million. In 2015, the Company elected to account for this investment under the cost method of accounting as the shares purchased were categorized as restricted. Effective December 31, 2016, these shares were no longer considered restricted for the purpose of determining if they are marketable securities under GAAP, and are accounted for as available for sale securities and included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets.

44

The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $302 million in 2017 and $253 million in 2016, primarily relate to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs.

The Company has commitments for potential future investments of approximately $57 million in four private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. 

Commitments and Obligations

The following sets forth the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above does not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $71 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $1 million that may become payable during 2018. The above does not include net pension liabilities of approximately $1.8 billion because the timing and amount of ultimate payment of such liability is dependent upon future events, including, but not limited to, future returns on plan assets and changes in the discount rate used to measure the liabilities. The above does not include the provisional estimate of transitional tax payments related to the TCJA of $240 million. The amounts of estimated future benefits payments to be made from pension plan assets are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2018, the Company expects to contribute approximately $27 million and $82 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, respectively.

Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Legal and Other Loss Contingencies

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions ("E&O"). GAAP requires that a liability be recorded when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Significant management judgment is required to apply this guidance. The Company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis by Oliver Wyman Group, a subsidiary of the Company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.

45

In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs.

Retirement Benefits

The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws.

The Company recognizes the funded status of its over-funded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI"), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The gains and losses that exceed specified corridors are amortized prospectively out of AOCI over a period that approximates the remaining life expectancy of participants in plans where substantially all participants are inactive or the average remaining service period of active participants for plans with active participants. The vast majority of unrecognized losses relate to inactive plans and are amortized over the remaining life expectancy of the participants.

The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, mortality and assumed rate of salary increase. The assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. The assumptions for expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate are discussed in more detail below.

The long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is determined for each plan based on the facts and circumstances that exist as of the measurement date, and the specific portfolio mix of each plan’s assets. The Company utilizes a model developed by Mercer, a subsidiary of the Company, to assist in the determination of this assumption. The model takes into account several factors, including: actual and target portfolio allocation; investment, administrative and trading expenses incurred directly by the plan trust; historical portfolio performance; relevant forward-looking economic analysis; and expected returns, variances and correlations for different asset classes. These measures are used to determine probabilities using standard statistical techniques to calculate a range of expected returns on the portfolio. 

The target asset allocation for the U.S. Plans is 64% equities and equity alternatives and 36% fixed income. At December 31, 2017, the actual allocation for the U.S. Plans was 63% equities and equity alternatives and 37% fixed income. At the end of 2016, the target asset allocation for the U.K. Plans, which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. Plan assets, was 48% equities and equity alternatives and 52% fixed income. During 2017, due to improvement in the funded status of the U.K. Plans, the Trustee revised the target asset allocation to 34% equities and equity alternatives and 66% fixed income. At December 31, 2017, the actual allocation for the U.K. Plans was 48% equities and equity alternatives and 52% fixed income and the Company expects to continue to move the actual portfolio allocation toward the revised targets during 2018.

The discount rate selected for each U.S. Plan is based on a model bond portfolio with coupons and redemptions that closely match the expected liability cash flows from the plan. Discount rates for non-U.S. plans are based on appropriate bond indices adjusted for duration; in the U.K., the plan duration is reflected using the Mercer yield curve.

46

The table below shows the weighted average assumed rate of return and the discount rate at the December 31, 2017 measurement date (for measuring pension expense in 2018) for the total Company, the U.S. and the Rest of World ("ROW").

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 85% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impact of discount rate changes shown above relates to the increase or decrease in actuarial gains or losses being amortized through net periodic pension cost, as well as the increase or decrease in interest expense, with all other facts and assumptions held constant. It does not contemplate nor include potential future impacts a change in the interest rate environment and discount rates might cause, such as the impact on the market value of the plans’ assets. Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant also may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions will not necessarily have a linear impact on the net periodic pension cost.

The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these post-retirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire, but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

The Company's tax rate reflects its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. In 2017, the Company's tax expense was significantly impacted by the enactment of the TCJA, which is discussed in more detail in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process. The first step involves recognition. The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position derive from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings, and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the tax position. If a tax position does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.

Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue.

47

Certain items are included in the Company's tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are measured at existing tax rates. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior period tax filings in jurisdictions that allow for the carryback of tax attributes pursuant to the applicable tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company's recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carry-forwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction.

Fair Value Determinations

Goodwill Impairment Testing—The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual impairment test for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Company assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The Company considered numerous factors, which included that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin in its most recent estimate of reporting unit fair values, whether significant acquisitions or dispositions occurred which might alter the fair value of its reporting units, macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on reporting unit fair values, actual performance compared with budget and prior projections used in its estimation of reporting unit fair values, industry and market conditions, and the year-over-year change in the Company’s share price.

The Company completed its qualitative assessment in the third quarter of 2017 and concluded that a two-step goodwill impairment test was not required in 2017 and that goodwill was not impaired.

Share-Based Payment

The guidance for accounting for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance.

As of December 31, 2017, there was $14.9 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average period over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.36 years. Also as of December 31, 2017, there was $197.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance stock unit awards. The weighted-average period over which that cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.08 years.

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding accounting for share-based payments.

48

New Accounting Pronouncements

Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable, under the sub-heading "New Accounting Pronouncements".

49

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk