Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)

General

Net sales for 2013 increased 2.4% in comparison to 2012 on a 4.0% increase in volume and a 1.6% decrease in revenue per requisition. The Company's acquisition of MEDTOX on July 31, 2012 increased revenue and volume by 1.6% and 2.1%, respectively in 2013 compared to 2012 and 1.0% and 1.4%, respectively, in 2012 compared to 2011. The Company's acquisition of Orchid in December 2011 increased revenue and volume by 1.1% and 0.3%, respectively, in 2012 compared to 2011. 

During 2013, government payment reductions and molecular pathology payment issues reduced the Company’s year over year margins by approximately 150 basis points, reduced year over year revenue per requisition by approximately 2% and reduced year over year operating flow by more than an estimated $100.0. Also, growth in the Company’s toxicology business reduced 2013 year over year revenue per requisition by approximately 1%. 

During 2013, the impact of weather reduced the Company's revenues and diluted earnings per share by an estimated $12.7 and $0.07, respectively. During 2012, the impact of weather (notably from Super Storm Sandy in October 2012) reduced the Company's revenues and diluted earnings per share by an estimated $16.0 and $0.09, respectively.

 The Company has seen growth in the amount of its patient accounts receivable. A significant portion of the Company’s bad debt expense is related to accounts receivable from patients. The Company believes its current allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to properly record its accounts receivable at their estimated net realizable value. Should this shift towards increased patient responsibility continue, the Company may need to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts and bad debt expense in future periods.

The Company manages its operations through two reportable segments: the Clinical diagnostics laboratory segment, which includes core testing as well as genomic and esoteric testing, and the Other segment, comprised of the Company's non-U.S. clinical diagnostic laboratory operations in Ontario, Canada, which is reviewed separately by corporate management for the purposes of allocation of resources. As mentioned above, the Clinical diagnostics laboratory segment results of operations have been negatively impacted by the reductions in payments for laboratory services, primarily from federal and state government entities. Operating results for the Other segment have declined slightly as compared to 2012, primarily due to the expansion of that segment through acquisitions not fully integrated and synergies not fully realized, as well as the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar in 2013 as compared with 2012. 

Seasonality

The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to physician offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive periods may not accurately reflect trends or results from one year to the next.

Results of Operations (amounts in millions except Revenue Per Requisition info)

Years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 42

Index

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2013 has been driven primarily by acquisitions made in all years in both of the Company's segments, along with growth in the Company's managed care business and toxicology testing.

During 2013, the impact of weather, reduced the Company's revenues by an estimated $12.7, of which $5.3 occurred in the fourth quarter. The 2013 decline in revenue per requisition in genomic and esoteric testing is a result of a change in mix of genetic and histology testing. Histology revenue per requisition was also impacted by payment reductions on the Medicare physician fee schedule. Further, revenue per requisition also decreased due to delays in payments and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payers after implementation of new molecular pathology codes at the beginning of the year and the implementation of sequestration on April 1, 2013. 

During the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of weather reduced revenue by an estimated $16.0. The increase in net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared with 2011 was driven primarily by the MEDTOX and Orchid acquisitions and by contributions from the milder winter weather experienced in the first quarter of 2012, along with positive volume growth in genomic and esoteric testing and the Other segment, offset by volume losses sustained in the fourth quarter of 2012 due to Super Storm Sandy. Genomic and esoteric testing volume as a percentage of total volume was 23.7% in both 2012 and 2011. Volume growth for genomic and esoteric testing was primarily due to the incremental volume from Orchid as well as growth in the NuSwab® series of women's health tests, offset by declines in histology and surgical pathology volumes. The decline in price in genomic and esoteric testing is a result of a lower mix of reproductive and histology testing. 

Net sales of the Other segment were $343.1 for 2013 compared to $335.0 in 2012, an increase of $8.1, or 2.4%. Net sales of the Other segment were negatively impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar in 2013 as compared with 2012 and 2011. In Canadian dollars, net sales of the Other segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were CN$353.2, 

CN$334.7 and CN$306.0, respectively.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) increased 4.8% in 2013 as compared with 2012 primarily due to increased test volumes and test mix changes. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2013 as compared to 2012 is primarily due to lower revenues resulting from the Medicare fee reductions, the impact of delays and denials of coverage of molecular pathology codes and sequestration in 2013, as mentioned above. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to the impact of weather, lower margins on acquired operations that have not yet been fully integrated as well as slower volume growth.

Labor and testing supplies for the year ended December 31, 2013, comprise over 77.4% of the Company’s cost of sales. Cost of sales has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to overall growth in the Company's 

 43

Index

volume, the impact of acquisitions, increases in labor, and the continued shift in test mix to genomic and esoteric testing which contributed to the higher cost of testing supplies. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 19.4% in 2013 compared to 19.7% in 2012. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to $9.9 in fees related to the MEDTOX acquisition recorded in 2012 and to efficiencies from acquired operations that are being integrated into the Company's operating cost structure. Additionally, bad debt expense increased to 4.4% of net sales in 2013 as compared to 4.3% of net sales in 2012. 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 19.7% in 2012 compared to 20.9% in 2011. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was partially due to expense management and to efficiencies from acquired operations that were integrated into the Company's cost structure. Additionally, bad debt expense decreased to 4.3% of net sales in 2012 as compared with 4.6% in 2011 primarily due to improved collection trends resulting from process improvement programs within the Company's billing department and field operations. These decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by $9.9 in transaction fees related to the MEDTOX acquisition, mentioned above. During 2011, the Company recorded the settlement of the Hunter Labs litigation in California for $34.5 ($49.5 settlement less previously recorded reserves of $15.0) in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2013 primarily reflects the net impact of acquisitions closed during all three years offset by adjustments to the fair value of deferred acquisition payments. During 2012, the Company recorded $6.2 in accelerated amortization relating to the termination of a licensing agreement.

Restructuring and Other Special Charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2013, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $21.8. The charges were comprised of $15.4 in severance and other personnel costs and $9.5 in facility-related costs primarily associated with general integration activities. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $0.7 in unused severance and $2.4 in unused facility-related costs.

During 2012, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $25.3. These charges were comprised of $16.2 in severance and other personnel costs and $19.6 in facility-related costs primarily associated with the ongoing integration activities of Orchid and the Integrated Genetics business and costs associated with the previously announced termination of an executive vice president. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $6.3 in unused severance and $4.2 in unused facility-related costs. 

During 2011, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $44.6. Of this amount, $27.4 related to severance and other personnel costs, and $22.0 primarily related to facility related costs associated with the ongoing integration of certain acquisitions including Genzyme Genetics and Westcliff. These charges were offset by restructuring credits of $4.8, resulting from the reversal of unused severance and facility closure liabilities. In addition, the Company recorded fixed assets impairment charges of $18.9 

 44

Index

primarily related to equipment, computer systems and leasehold improvements in closed facilities. The Company also recorded special charges of $14.8 related to the write-off of certain assets and liabilities related to an investment made in prior years, along with a $2.6 write-off of an uncollectible receivable from a past installment sale of one of the Company's lab operations.

From time to time, the Company implements cost savings initiatives. These initiatives result from the integration of recently acquired businesses and from reducing the number of facilities and employees in an effort to balance the Company's cost of operations with current test volume trends while maintaining the high quality of its services that the marketplace demands. It is difficult to determine the nature, timing and extent of these activities until adequate planning has been completed and reviewed. The continuing economic downturn being experienced in the U.S. and globally has had an impact on the Company's business. The Company believes that any restructuring costs which may be incurred in future periods will be more than offset by subsequent savings realized from these potential actions and that any related restructuring charges will not have a material impact on the Company's operations or liquidity.

As part of the Clearstone integration, the Company also recorded a 6.9 loss on the disposal of one of its European subsidiaries in Other, net under Other income (expenses) during 2012.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense for 2013 as compared with 2012 is primarily due to the issuance of $700.0 of senior notes in November 2013 and $1,000.0 of senior notes in August 2012, net of the payoff of the 5.5% senior notes due 2013 and the reductions in borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility due to paydowns with proceeds from the 2012 and 2013 issuances. This increase was also partially offset by a decrease in interest expense on the senior notes due 2020 as a result of entering into a fixed to floating interest rate swap in the third quarter of 2013. 

The increase in interest expense for 2012 as compared with 2011 is primarily due to the issuance of $1,000.0 of senior notes in August 2012. This increase was partially offset by the settlement of approximately $155.1 of the zero-coupon subordinated notes during 2011. In addition, during December 2011, the Company replaced its existing term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility") with a new revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), which is described further in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements." The new Revolving Credit Facility had a lower effective interest rate during 2012 compared with the effective interest rate on the Term Loan Facility during 2011. 

Equity Method Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity method income represents the Company's ownership share in joint venture partnerships along with equity investments in other companies in the healthcare industry. The decrease in income in 2013 compared to 2012 is primarily the result of a $2.9 increase recorded in 2012 due to the liquidation of one of its joint ventures and a decline in profitability of one of the Company's joint venture partnerships due to a challenging business climate in its market. 

The increase in income in 2012 compared with 2011 is primarily due to the Company's share of losses during 2011 in the Cincinnati, Ohio joint venture (liquidation initiated in the second half of 2011) and the Canada, China, Singapore and Western Europe equity method investments (acquired by the Company in the second half of 2011) and the $2.9 increase in equity method income recorded in 2012, in conjunction with the liquidation of one of its joint ventures. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 45

Index

The effective rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by the release of a capital loss valuation allowance and recording two years of the R&D tax credit. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was enacted in early 2013 and reinstated the R&D tax credit for 2012 and extended the credit for calendar year 2013.

The effective tax rate for 2012 was favorably impacted by a decrease in the reserve for unrecognized income tax benefits compared to 2011, partially offset by an increase in tax on the additional investment in the Company's Canadian subsidiary. The effective tax rate for 2011 was negatively impacted by an increase in the reserve for unrecognized income tax benefits, the divestiture of certain Orchid paternity contracts, and foreign losses not tax effected.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position

The Company's strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company's principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow, supplemented by proceeds from debt offerings. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company's fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. The Company's senior unsecured Revolving Credit Facility is further discussed in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements."

On November 1, 2013, the Company issued $700.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company’s effective shelf registration on Form S-3. The senior notes consisted of $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Notes due 2018 and $300.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023. The net proceeds were first used to repay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. 

 During the third quarter of 2013, the Company entered into fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements for the 4.625% senior notes due 2020 with an aggregate notional amount of $600.0 and variable interest rates based on one-month LIBOR plus 2.298% to hedge against changes in the fair value of a portion of the Company's long term debt. These derivative financial instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of the senior notes due 2020. These interest rate swaps are included in other long term assets and added to the value of the senior notes, with an aggregate fair value of $0.0 at December 31, 2013. As the specific terms and notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments match those of the fixed-rate debt being hedged, the derivative instruments are assumed to be perfectly effective hedges and accordingly, there is no impact to the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no derivative instruments designated as accounting hedges in 2012.

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds were available for other general corporate purposes.

On July 31, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of MEDTOX for $236.4 in cash, excluding transaction fees. The acquisition was financed through borrowings from the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and cash on hand.

 The Company has discussed its intention to increase its ratio of total debt to consolidated Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization ("EBITDA") over time from 2.0 to 1.0 as of December 2012 to 2.5 to 1.0. The Company believes that it can achieve this through the use of its Revolving Credit Facility and its ready access to debt capital markets. As of December 31, 2013, the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA was 2.4 to 1.0. The Company continues to monitor the debt capital markets and, given current market conditions, believes it can readily increase its ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA. The Company believes that its cash from operations, in combination with cash on hand and borrowing capacity, will be sufficient to satisfy its obligations in 2014 and beyond. 

Operating Activities

In 2013, the Company’s operations provided $818.7 of cash, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The decrease in cash provided from operations in 2013 as compared with 2012 is primarily attributable to the delays and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payers after implementation of newly established molecular pathology codes as well as government payment reductions. These delays, denials and government reductions reduced year over year operating cash flow by more than an estimated $100.0. The Company continues to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers and to generate ongoing improvements to the claim submission processes.

 46

Index

In 2012, the Company’s operations provided $841.4 of cash, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The Company continued to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers and to generate on-going improvements to the claim submission processes. 

Investing Activities

Capital expenditures were $202.2, $173.8 and $145.7 for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in capital spending in 2013 was related to certain integration and cost savings initiatives started by the Company. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $185.0 to $205.0 in 2014. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility as needed.

The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $632.9 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions, including MEDTOX Scientific in 2012 and Orchid in 2011. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing operations. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas.

The Company has invested a total of $2.9 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies and had $41.0 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology as of December 31, 2013. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the failure of the licensed technology to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace and/or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs.

Financing Activities

On December 21, 2011, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") providing for the Revolving Credit Facility, a five-year $1,000.0 senior unsecured revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., acting as Administrative Agent, Barclays Capital as Syndication Agent, and a group of financial institutions as lending parties. As part of the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Company repaid all of the outstanding principal balances of $318.8 on its existing term loan facility and $235.0 on its existing revolving credit facility. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit facility, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of remaining unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.

There were no balances outstanding on the Company's Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at varying rates based upon a base rate or LIBOR plus (in each case) a percentage based on the Company's debt rating with Standard & Poor's and Moody's Rating Services. 

The Revolving Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, funding of share repurchases and other restricted payments permitted under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also contains limitations on aggregate subsidiary indebtedness and a debt covenant that requires that the Company maintain on the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, in each case taken as one accounting period, a ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA of not more than 3.0 to 1.0. The Company was in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA was 2.4.

As of December 31, 2013, the effective interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility was 1.1%.

On November 1, 2013, the Company issued $700.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company’s effective shelf registration on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Notes due 2018 and $300.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023. The net proceeds were used to repay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. 

The Senior Notes due 2018 and Senior Notes due 2023 bear interest at the rate of 2.50% per annum and 4.00% per annum, respectively, payable semi-annually on May 1 and November of each year, commencing on May 1, 2014. 

 47

Index

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds are available for other general corporate purposes.

The Senior Notes due 2017 and Senior Notes due 2022 bear interest at the rate of 2.20% per annum and 3.75% per annum, respectively, payable semi-annually on February 23 and August 23 of each year, commencing February 23, 2013.

During 2013, the Company purchased $1,015.6 of its stock representing 10.4 shares. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had remaining outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase $1,058.5 of Company common stock. 

During 2013, the Company settled notices to convert $25.5 aggregate principal amount at maturity of its zero-coupon subordinated notes with a conversion value of $31.8. The total cash used for these settlements was $21.5 and the Company also issued 0.1 additional shares of common stock.

On September 12, 2013, the Company announced that for the period of September 12, 2013 to March 11, 2014, the zero-coupon subordinated notes will accrue contingent cash interest at a rate of no less than 0.125% of the average market price of a zero-coupon subordinated note for the five trading days ended September 6, 2013, in addition to the continued accrual of the original issue discount.

On January 2, 2014, the Company announced that its zero-coupon subordinated notes may be converted into cash and common stock at the conversion rate of 13.4108 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the notes, subject to the terms of the zero-coupon subordinated notes and the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee and conversion agent. In order to exercise the option to convert all or a portion of the zero-coupon subordinated notes, holders are required to validly surrender their zero-coupon subordinated notes at any time during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2014, through the close of business on the last business day of the calendar quarter, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Monday, March 31, 2014. If notices of conversion are received, the Company plans to settle the cash portion of the conversion obligation with cash on hand and/or borrowings under the revolving credit facility. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB+ from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

(b)As announced by the Company on January 2, 2014, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes during the first quarter of 2014 subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements” and "Credit Ratings" above for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.

 48

Index

(c)The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in "Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases.

Other Commercial Commitments

As of December 31, 2013, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $42.5, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year.

On October 14, 2011, the Company issued notice to a noncontrolling interest holder in its Other segment of its intent to purchase the holder's partnership units in accordance with the terms of the joint venture's partnership agreement. On November 28, 2011, this purchase was completed for a total purchase price of CN$151.7 as outlined in the partnership agreement (CN$147.8 plus certain adjustments relating to cash distribution hold backs made to finance recent business acquisitions and capital expenditures). The purchase of these additional partnership units brings the Company's percentage interest owned to 98.2%.

The contractual value of the remaining noncontrolling interest put totals $19.4 at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, $19.4 and $20.7, respectively, have been classified as mezzanine equity in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In March 2013, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on foreign currency matters that clarifies the guidance of a parent company's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity. Under this new standard, a parent company that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a foreign subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity shall release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only if a sale or transfer results in complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity. This standard shall be applied prospectively and will become effective for the Company on January 1, 2014. The Company expects that the adoption of this standard will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:

•Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts;

•Pension expense;

•Accruals for self insurance reserves;

•Income taxes; and

•Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets

 49

Index

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts

Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients, or fees made available through patient hardship programs. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed.

The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience.

The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2013 and 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table excludes the percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category for the Other segment, and its other smaller foreign operations. Combined, these foreign net accounts receivable balances comprise less than 8.0% of the Company's total net accounts receivable balances. The Company believes that including the agings for these foreign operations would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company. The majority of the foreign accounts receivable are due from the provincial government and are generally paid within 30-60 days of billing.

Pension Expense

In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but continue to earn interest 

 50

Index

credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on service.

The Company Plan covers substantially all employees hired prior to December 31, 2009. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service through December 31, 2009, interest credits and average compensation. The Company also has the PEP which covers its senior management group. Prior to 2010, the PEP provided for the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum limitation on annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable under the Company Plan but for such limitation.

The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 4.80% discount rate and a 7.0% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2013.

Discount Rate

The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Towers Watson Bond:Link model, which simulates the purchase of investment-grade corporate bonds at current market yields with principal amounts and maturity dates closely matching the Company's projected cash disbursements from its plans. This completed model represents the yields to maturity that the Company could theoretically settle its plan obligations at year end. The weighted-average yield on the modeled bond portfolio is then used to form the discount rate assumption used for each retirement plan. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2013 retirement plan expense of $2.7.

Return on Plan Assets

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2013 pension expense of $2.5.

Net pension cost for 2013 was $11.0 as compared with $12.1 in 2012 and $8.6 in 2011. The decrease in pension expense was due to decreases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of higher discount rates. The increase in pension expense in 2012 was due to increases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of lower discount rates and a 25 basis points decrease in the expected return on assets as a result of declines in asset market values in 2011. Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to decrease to $7.8 in 2014.

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted.

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company’s maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on actuarial assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims, including the frequency and payment trends of historical claims.

If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Historical trends have not differed materially from these estimates.

 51

Index

 Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets

The Company assesses goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment at least annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. The timing of the Company's annual impairment testing is the end of the fiscal year. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) updates to their authoritative guidance regarding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing, an entity is allowed to first assess qualitative factors as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform quantitative impairment testing. If an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the estimated fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, then no further testing is required. Otherwise, impairment testing must be performed in accordance with the original accounting standards. The updated FASB guidance also allows an entity to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in its goodwill assessment and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step assessment. Similarly, a Company can proceed directly to a quantitative assessment in the case of impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets as well. In 2013 and 2012, the Company elected to bypass the purely qualitative assessments for its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and proceed to quantitative assessments utilizing methodologies as described in the following paragraphs. 

Step One of the goodwill impairment test includes the estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit as compared to the book value of the reporting unit. The Company uses a market value approach for determining fair value and utilizes a number of factors such as publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of the Company as well as operating results, business plans, and present value techniques. If Step One indicates potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment.

The Company has indefinite-lived assets consisting of acquired Canadian licenses. When a quantitative analysis is considered necessary for indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company utilizes an income approach to determine the fair value. It then compares the carrying value of the indefinite-lived asset to its fair value. Impairment losses are recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value.

There are inherent uncertainties related to the factors described above and judgment related to our impairment assessments of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. The assumptions underlying the impairment analyses may change in such a manner that impairment in value may occur in the future. Any such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known.

 52

Index

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including:

1. changes in federal, state, local and third party payer regulations or policies or other future reforms in the health care system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state, regional or private insurance cooperatives (Health Insurance Exchanges), new public insurance programs or a single-payer system, affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

2. significant monetary damages, fines, penalties, assessments, refunds, repayments, and/or exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs resulting from investigations, audits, regulatory examinations, information requests, and other inquires by the government; 

3. loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;

4. penalties or loss of license arising from the failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act;

5. increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant penalties arising from the failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HITECH and any subsequent amendments;

6. subsequent costs due to damage to the Company's reputation and significant litigation exposure arising from the failure to maintain the security of business information or systems or protect against cyber security attacks;

7. negative impact on the Company's reimbursement, cash collections, days sales outstanding and profitability arising from the failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set by the compliance date of October 1, 2014;

8. increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

9. increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;

10. changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans and adverse changes in payer reimbursement or payer coverage policies related to specific testing procedures or categories of testing;

11. failure to obtain and retain new customers or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;

12. failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;

13. failure to effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integrations;

14. adverse results in litigation matters;

15. inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;

16. business interruption, increased costs, and other adverse effects on the Company's operations due to the unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages, or general labor unrest;

17. failure to maintain the Company's days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels;

18. decrease in the Company's credit ratings by Standard & Poor's and/or Moody's;

19. discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;

 53

Index

20. failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests;

21. substantial costs arising from the inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests;

22. failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets;

23. changes in government regulations or policies, including regulations and policies of the Food and Drug Administration, affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests;

24. inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company's products and services and successfully enforce the Company's proprietary rights;

25. the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might have an impact on the Company's ability to develop, perform, or market the Company's tests or operate its business;

26. failure in the Company's information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements;

27. failure to meet required financial reporting deadlines arising from a failure of the Company's financial information systems;

28. failure of the Company's disaster recovery plans to provide adequate protection against the interruption of business and/or to permit the recovery of business operations;

29. business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters, terrorism or other criminal acts, and/or widespread outbreak of influenza or other pandemic illness;

30. liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;

31. impact on the Company's testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs arising from a significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets;

32. changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations; and

33. expenses and risks associated with international operations, including but not limited to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as laws and regulations that differ from those of the U.S., and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign markets.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK