Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Introduction  

The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Further, this report may contain material that includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that reflect, when made, Nielsen’s current views with respect to current events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are and will be, as the case may be, subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to Nielsen’s operations and business environment that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, express or implied, by such forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The terms “Company,” “Nielsen,” “we,” “our” or “us,” as used herein, refer to Nielsen Holdings B.V. prior to the Conversion and to Nielsen Holdings N.V. upon and after the Conversion, unless otherwise stated or indicated by context.  

Background and Executive Summary  

On May 17, 2006, Nielsen, formerly known as Valcon Acquisition Holding B.V., was formed by investment funds associated with the Original Sponsors as a subsidiary of Valcon Acquisition Holding (Luxembourg) S.à r.l. (“Luxco”). On May 24, 2006, The Nielsen Company B.V. (“TNC B.V.”) (formerly VNU Group B.V. and VNU N.V.) was acquired through a tender offer to stockholders by Valcon Acquisition B.V. (“Valcon”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nielsen (herein referred to as the “Acquisition”). Valcon’s cumulative purchases totaled 99.4% of TNC B.V.’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. In May 2008, Valcon acquired the remaining TNC B.V. common stock through a statutory squeeze-out procedure pursuant to Dutch legal and regulatory requirements and therefore currently holds 100% of TNC B.V.’s outstanding common stock. As part of the Acquisition, Valcon also acquired all of the 7% preference shares of TNC B.V. Valcon also acquired 100% of TNC B.V.’s preferred B shares which were subsequently canceled in 2006. TNC B.V.’s common and preferred shares were delisted from the NYSE Euronext on July 11, 2006. The registered office of Nielsen is located in Diemen, the Netherlands, with our headquarters located in New York.  

We are a global information and measurement company that provides clients with a comprehensive understanding of consumers and consumer behavior. We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and industry expertise about what consumers buy and what consumers watch on a global and local basis (consumer interaction with television, online and mobile). Our information, insights and solutions help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries, including many developing and emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies.  

We believe that important measures of our results of operations include revenue, operating income and adjusted EBITDA (defined below). Our long-term financial objectives include consistent revenue growth and expanding operating margins. Accordingly, we are focused on geographic market and service offering expansion to drive revenue growth and improving operating efficiencies including effective resource utilization, information technology leverage and overhead cost management.  

Our business strategy is built upon a model that has traditionally yielded consistent revenue performance. Typically, before the start of each year, nearly 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments, which provides us with a high degree of stability to our revenue and allows us to effectively manage our profitability and cash flows. We continue to look for growth opportunities through global expansion, specifically within developing markets, as well as through the expansion of our insights services and measurement services across what we refer to as the three screens: television, online and mobile.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Our Transformation Initiative and other productivity initiatives, which were implemented following the Acquisition, are focused on a combination of improving operating leverage through targeted cost-reduction programs, business process improvements, portfolio restructuring actions (e.g. the exit of our Publications businesses) while at the same time investing in key programs to enhance future growth opportunities.  

Achieving our business objectives requires us to manage a number of key risk areas. Our growth objective of geographic market and service expansion requires us to maintain the consistency and integrity of our information and underlying processes on a global scale, and to invest effectively our capital in technology and infrastructure to keep pace with our clients’ demands and our competitors. Our operating footprint across approximately 100 countries requires disciplined global and local resource management of internal and third party providers to ensure success. In addition, our high level of indebtedness requires active management of our debt profile, with a focus on underlying maturities, interest rate risk, liquidity and operating cash flows.  

Business Segment Overview  

We align our business into three reporting segments: what consumers buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics), what consumers watch (media audience measurement and analytics) and Expositions. Our Buy and Watch segments, which together generated substantially all of our revenues in 2010, are built on a foundation of proprietary data assets that are designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses.  

Our Buy segment provides Information services, which includes our core tracking and scan data (primarily transactional measurement data and consumer behavior information) and Insights services (primarily comprised of our analytical solutions) to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. Our services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, launch and grow new products, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Our data is used by our clients to measure their market share, tracking billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets around the world. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients’ key business decisions. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and developing markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan and Australia while developing markets include Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia.  

Our Watch segment provides viewership data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across television, online and mobile screens. Our Watch data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending. We are a leader in providing measurement services across the three screens.  

Our Expositions segment operates one of the largest portfolios of business-to-business trade shows in the United States. Each year, we produce approximately 40 trade shows, which in 2010 connected approximately 270,000 buyers and sellers across 20 industries.  

Certain corporate costs, other than those described above, including those related to selling, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology systems, are considered operating costs and are allocated to our segments based on either the actual amount of costs incurred or on a basis consistent with the operations of the underlying segment.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets  

33  

Table of Contents 

 and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most significant of these estimates relate to: revenue recognition; business combinations including purchase price allocations; accruals for pension costs and other post-retirement benefits; accounting for income taxes; and valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, computer software and share-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the valuation of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Actual results could vary from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a summary of the significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 1 – Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies – to our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize our revenues when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered or information has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable and the collectibility of the related revenue is reasonably assured.  

A significant portion of our revenue is generated from information (primarily retail measurement and consumer panel services) and measurement (primarily from television, internet and mobile audiences) services. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of our services based upon fair value as the services are performed, which is usually ratably over the term of the contract(s). Invoiced amounts are recorded as deferred revenue until earned. Substantially all of our customer contracts are non-cancellable and non-refundable.  

Our revenue arrangements may include multiple deliverables and in these arrangements, the individual deliverables within a contract are separated and recognized upon delivery based upon their fair values relative to the total contract value, to the extent that the fair values are readily determinable and the deliverables have stand-alone value to the customer. In certain cases, software is included as part of these arrangements to allow our customers to supplementally view delivered information and is provided for the term of the arrangement and is not significant to the marketing effort and is not sold separately. Accordingly, software provided to our customers is considered to be incidental to the arrangements and is not recognized as a separate element.  

A discussion of our revenue recognition policies, by segment, follows:  

Buy  

Revenue from our Buy segment, primarily from retail measurement services and consumer panel services, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period during which the services are performed and information is delivered to the customer.  

We provide insights and solutions to customers through analytical studies that are recognized into revenue as value is delivered to the customer. The pattern of revenue recognition for these contracts varies depending on the terms of the individual contracts, and may be recognized proportionally or deferred until the end of the contract term and recognized when the information has been delivered to the customer.  

Watch  

Revenue from our Watch segment is primarily generated from television, internet and mobile measurement services and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, as the service is delivered to the customer.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Expositions  

Revenue and certain costs within our Expositions segment are recognized upon completion of each event.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

Expense Recognition  

We measure the cost of all share-based payments, including stock options, at fair value on the grant date and recognize such costs within the Consolidated Statements of Operations; however, no expense is recognized for stock options that do not ultimately vest. We recognize expense associated with stock options that vest upon a single date using the straight-line method. For those that vest over time, an accelerated graded vesting is used. We recorded $18 million, $14 million and $18 million of expense associated with stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The aggregate fair value of all outstanding vested and unvested options was $73 million and $38 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010.  

Fair Value Measurement and Valuation Methodologies  

Stock-based compensation expense is primarily based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including the consideration of factors such as estimating the expected term of stock options, expected volatility of our stock, and the number of stock-based awards expected to be forfeited due to future terminations. Some of the critical assumptions used in estimating the grant date fair value are presented in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In addition, for stock-based awards where vesting is dependent upon achieving certain operating performance goals, we estimate the likelihood of achieving the performance goals. Differences between actual results and these estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. Expected volatility is based primarily on a combination of the estimates of implied volatility of our peer-group and our historical volatility adjusted for its leverage. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s judgment.  

Our board of directors set the exercise price of stock options with the intention that the price per share is not less than the estimated fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Our board has taken into consideration numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair market value of our common stock on each grant date in order to be able to set exercise prices. Such factors included, but were not limited to, (i) valuations using the methodologies described below, (ii) our operating and financial performance and (iii) the impact of global economic factors on market values.  

Since our common stock was not publicly traded at any point during 2010, we conducted common stock valuation analyses on a semi-annual basis (as of June 30th and December 31st for each annual period) as well as on an interim basis considering the significance of individual grants. We considered numerous objective and  

35  

Table of Contents 

 subjective factors in valuing our common stock at each valuation date in accordance with the guidance in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation, or Practice Aid. These objective and subjective factors included, but were not limited to:  

   •    arm’s-length sales of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions;  

   •    valuations of our common stock;  

   •    our stage of development and financial position; and  

   •    our future financial projections.  

Our common stock valuations performed from the Acquisition through December 31, 2010 were determined by taking a weighted-average value calculated under two different valuation approaches, an income approach and a market approach. While we believe both of these two approaches provide reliable estimates of fair value, we apply a heavier weighting to the income approach as we believe this valuation method provides a more reasonable estimate of fair value given the market approach may reflect greater volatility based on the trading multiples of a peer group in an unstable or illiquid market. We have not applied a discounting factor to the resulting fair values obtained by averaging the values calculated under the income approach and the market for the lack of marketability of the common stock for being a private company.  

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we performed valuations of our common stock in March 2010, April 2010, June 2010 and December 2010. As a standard part of our approval process for each of these valuations, our board of directors reviewed our current and projected financial performance, including the consideration of various scenarios of such performance and their corresponding impact on our common stock valuation. As part of our board’s assessment of our operating performance it considered general economic conditions. Additionally, our board reviewed the peer group of companies and their performance relative to our business strategy. Finally, on each valuation date, our board considered the volatility in the equity markets generally. Subsequent to the initial public offering of our common stock, the aforementioned valuation process will be replaced by the valuation of our stock options in reference to the market price of our underlying common stock on the date of grant.  

Business Combinations  

We account for our business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires significant judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items.  

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of certain trade names and trademarks, are each tested for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such asset may not be recoverable. We have designated October 1st as the date in which the annual assessment is performed as this timing corresponds with the development of our formal budget and business plan review. We review the recoverability of our goodwill by comparing the estimated fair values of reporting units with their respective carrying amounts. We established, and continue to evaluate, our reporting units based on our internal reporting structure and generally define such reporting units at our operating segment level or one level below. Similar to the approach we take in valuing our common stock, the estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined using a combination of valuation techniques, primarily by an income approach using a discounted cash flow analysis and a market-based approach.  

36  

Table of Contents 

A discounted cash flow analysis requires the use of various assumptions, including expectations of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and tax rates in developing the present value of future cash flow projections. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside of the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. Changes in assumptions or estimates could materially affect the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit, and therefore could affect the amount of potential impairment. The following assumptions are significant to our discounted cash flow analysis:  

   •    Business projections – the assumptions of expected future cash flows and growth rates are based on assumptions about the level of business activity in the marketplace as well as applicable cost levels that drive our budget and business plans. The budget and business plans are updated at least annually and are frequently reviewed by management and our board of directors. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our valuation, and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. A deterioration in profitability, adverse market conditions and a slower or weaker economic recovery than currently estimated by management could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge in the future. Should such events or circumstances arise, management would evaluate other options available at that time that, if executed, could result in future profitability.  

   •    Long-term growth rates – the assumed long-term growth rate representing the expected rate at which a reporting unit’s earnings stream, beyond that of the budget and business plan period, is projected to grow. These rates are used to calculate the terminal value, or value at the end of the future earnings stream, of our reporting units, and are added to the cash flows projected for the budget and business plan period. The long-term growth rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit such as the maturity of the underlying services. The long-term growth rates we used for our reporting units were between 2% and 4%.  

   •    Discount rates – the reporting unit’s combined future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that is likely to be used by market participants. The weighted-average cost of capital is our estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. The discount rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit. The discount rates we used for our reporting units were between 9% and 13%.  

These estimates and assumptions vary between each reporting unit depending on the facts and circumstances specific to that unit. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we made are reasonable, but they are susceptible to change from period to period.  

We also use a market-based approach in estimating the fair value of our reporting units. The market-based approach utilizes available market comparisons such as indicative industry multiples that are applied to current year revenue and earnings as well as recent comparable transactions.  

To validate the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair values, we reconcile the aggregate fair values of our reporting units to our enterprise market capitalization. Enterprise market capitalization includes, among other factors, the estimated fair value of our common stock and the appropriate redemption values of our debt.  

37  

Table of Contents 

We did not have any indicators of impairment during the year ended December 31, 2010. The following table summarizes the results of the ten reporting units that were subject to the October 1, 2010 annual impairment testing and the related goodwill value associated with the reporting units for (a) fair values exceeding carrying values by less than 10%, (b) fair values exceeding carrying values between 10% and 20% and (c) fair values exceeding carrying values by more than 20%.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) This reporting unit was impaired during the third quarter of 2009.  

We perform sensitivity analyses on our assumptions, primarily around both long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. Our sensitivity analyses include several combinations of reasonably possible scenarios with regard to these assumptions. However, we consistently test a one percent movement in both our long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. When applying these sensitivity analyses, we noted that the fair value was less than the underlying book value by less than 10% for two of our reporting units with goodwill of approximately $941 million at October 1, 2010 (approximately 13% of our total goodwill). These reporting units were subject to impairment charges in 2009 and were adjusted to reflect the fair value at that time.  

However, since the effects of applying our sensitivity analyses based upon reasonably possible adverse changes in assumptions still resulted in fair values of our reporting units in excess of underlying carrying values, with the exception of two of our reporting units, which were subject to impairment charges in 2009 and were therefore expected to show such result, we concluded an impairment did not exist as of October 1, 2010 and it was not reasonably likely that an impairment would occur in the next twelve months from that date. While management believes that these sensitivity analyses provide a reasonable basis on which to evaluate the recovery of our goodwill, other facts or circumstances may arise that could impact the impairment assessment and therefore these analyses should not be used as a sole predictor of impairment.  

Our results from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 included an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $282 million, which was recorded in the third quarter of 2009. We also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $55 million in the third quarter of 2009 relating to our Publications operating segment, which has been accounted for as a discontinued operation.  

Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include a goodwill impairment charge of $96 million. We also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $336 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 relating to our Publications operating segment, which has been accounted for as a discontinued operation.  

The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of trade names and trademarks are determined using a “relief from royalty” discounted cash flow valuation methodology. Significant assumptions inherent in this methodology include estimates of royalty rates and discount rates. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets. Assumptions about royalty rates are based on the rates at which comparable trade names and trademarks are being licensed in the marketplace.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Pension Costs  

We provide a number of retirement benefits to our employees, including defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical plans. Pension costs, in respect of defined benefit pension plans, primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on plan assets. Differences between this expected return and the actual return on these plan assets and actuarial changes are not recognized in the statement of operations, unless the accumulated differences and changes exceed a certain threshold. The excess is amortized and charged to the statement of operations over, at the maximum, the average remaining term of employee service. We recognize obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans as expenses in the statement of operations as they are incurred.  

The determination of benefit obligations and expenses is based on actuarial models. In order to measure benefit costs and obligations using these models, critical assumptions are made with regard to the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the assumed rate of compensation increases. We provide retiree medical benefits to a limited number of participants in the U.S. and have ceased to provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our Dutch retirees. Therefore, retiree medical care cost trend rates are not a significant driver of our post retirement costs. Management reviews these critical assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions involve demographic factors such as turnover, retirement and mortality rates. Management reviews these assumptions periodically and updates them as necessary.  

The discount rate is the rate at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. For our U.S. plans, the discount rate is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long-term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds in this portfolio is expected to match the estimated payment benefit streams of our U.S. plans. For the Dutch and other non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds.  

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider, for each country, the structure of the asset portfolio and the expected rates of return for each of the components. For our U.S. plans, a 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal plans by approximately $1 million per year. A similar 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal Dutch plans by approximately $3 million per year. We assumed that the weighted-averages of long-term returns on our pension plans were 6.5%, 6.4% and 6.4 % for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The actual return on plan assets will vary year to year from this assumption. Although the actual return on plan assets will vary from year to year, we believe it is appropriate to use long-term expected forecasts in selecting our expected return on plan assets. As such, there can be no assurance that our actual return on plan assets will approximate the long-term expected forecasts.  

Income Taxes  

We have a presence in approximately 100 countries. We have completed many material acquisitions and divestitures, which have generated complex tax issues requiring management to use its judgment to make various tax determinations. We try to organize the affairs of our subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner, taking into consideration the jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to outstanding indemnification agreements, the tax payable on select disposals made in recent years has not been finally determined. Although we are confident that tax returns have been appropriately prepared and filed, there is risk that additional tax may be assessed on certain transactions or that the deductibility of certain expenditures may be disallowed for tax purposes. Our policy is to estimate tax risk to the best of our ability and provide accordingly for those risks and take positions in which a high degree of confidence exists that the tax treatment will be accepted by the tax authorities. The policy with respect to deferred taxation is to provide in full for temporary differences using the liability method.  

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are computed by assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The carrying value of deferred tax assets is adjusted by a valuation allowance to the extent that these deferred tax assets are not considered to be realized on a more likely than not basis. Realization of deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our judgment and is dependent  

39  

Table of Contents 

 upon our ability to generate future taxable income in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. Valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. In assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies.  

Long-Lived Assets  

We are required to assess whether the value of our long-lived assets, including our buildings, improvements, technical and other equipment, and amortizable intangible assets have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. We do not perform a periodic assessment of assets for impairment in the absence of such information or indicators. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not recoverable. Recoverability of assets that are held and used is measured by comparing the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be derived from an asset (or a group of assets) to their carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset (or the group of assets) exceeds the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows, impairment is considered to exist. If impairment is considered to exist based on undiscounted cash flows, the impairment charge is measured using an estimation of the assets’ fair value, typically using a discounted cash flow method. The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of fair values for assets (or groups of assets) requires us to make significant judgments concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, expected cash flows and applicable discount rates. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and our assessments change. No impairment indicators were noted for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009 include an aggregate customer-related intangible asset impairment charge of $245 million.  

We capitalize software development costs with respect to major internal use software initiatives or enhancements. The costs are capitalized from the time that the preliminary project stage is completed, and we consider it probable that the software will be used to perform the function intended until the time the software is placed in service for its intended use. Once the software is placed in service, the capitalized costs are generally amortized over periods of three to six years. If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of software may not be recovered, a recoverability analysis is performed based on estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated from the software in the future. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the software cost is written down to estimated fair value and an impairment is recognized. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and as our assessments change.  

Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results  

Divestitures  

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received net cash proceeds of $17 million associated with business divestitures, including the sale of our box-office tracking operation as well as the remaining properties within the Publications operating segment discussed further below.  

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we received $84 million in net proceeds associated with business divestitures, primarily associated with the sale of our media properties within the Publications operating segment. The impact of the remaining divestitures on our consolidated results of operations was not material.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, we received $23 million in net proceeds primarily associated with two divestitures within our Expositions segment and the final settlement of the sale of our Directories segment to World Directories Acquisition Corp (“World Directories”). The impact of these divestitures on our consolidated statement of operations was not material for all periods presented.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Discontinued Operations  

In December 2009, we substantially completed the planned exit of our Publications operating segment through the sale of our media properties, including The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, to e5 Global Media LLC. Our consolidated financial statements reflect the Publications operating segment as a discontinued operation. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $14 million, net of taxes of $3 million. The net loss included $10 million of liabilities for certain obligations associated with transition services that we contractually retained. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we completed the exit of the remaining properties and recorded a loss on sale of $5 million (net of tax of $3 million) associated with these divestitures.  

In October 2010, we reached an agreement with the plaintiff in a lawsuit associated with our former Publications operating segment for a $12 million cash settlement, which was paid on October 26, 2010. We recorded a $7 million charge (net of tax of $5 million) associated with this settlement, which has been reported as a component of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $55 million relating to our Publications operating segment in September 2009.  

See Note 4 – Business Divestitures – to our consolidated financial statements.  

Acquisitions and Investments in Affiliates  

For the year ended December 31, 2010, we paid cash consideration of $55 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. In conjunction with these acquisitions, we recorded deferred consideration of $20 million, which is payable through 2013. Had the current period acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2010, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, we paid cash consideration of $50 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired. In conjunction with these acquisitions, we recorded deferred consideration of $25 million, of which $22 million was attributable to a March 2009 acquisition, which in March 2010, was agreed to be settled by a cash payment of $11 million in April 2010 and the issuance of $11 million in equity, substantially all of which is payable through March 2012 and non-cash consideration of $7 million. Had the current period acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2009, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

On December 19, 2008, we completed the purchase of the remaining 50% interest in AGB Nielsen Media Research (“AGBNMR”), a leading international television audience media measurement business, from WPP Group plc (“WPP”). With our full ownership of AGBNMR, we expect to be able to better leverage our global media product portfolio. In exchange for the remaining 50% interest in AGBNMR, we transferred business assets and ownership interests with an aggregate fair value of $72 million. No material gain or loss was recorded on the business assets and ownerships transferred.  

On May 15, 2008, we completed the acquisition of IAG Research, Inc. (“IAG”), for $223 million (including non-cash consideration of $1 million), which was net of $12 million of cash acquired. The acquisition expands our television and internet analytics services through IAG’s measurement of consumer engagement with television programs, national commercials and product placements.  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid cash consideration of $39 million associated with other acquisitions and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired. In conjunction with these acquisitions, and as of December 31, 2008, we recorded deferred consideration of $12 million, which was subsequently paid in January 2009. Had the AGBNMR, IAG and other acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2008, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency  

Our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars and are therefore subject to the impact of movements in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of individual businesses whose functional currencies are other than U.S. dollars. Our principal foreign exchange revenue exposure is spread across several currencies, primarily the Euro. The table below sets forth the profile of our revenue by principal currency.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impact our operating results. Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A.—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. The average U.S. dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00, $1.39 to €1.00 and $1.47 to €1.00 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations.  

We have operations in both our Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela and our functional currency for these operations is the Venezuelan bolivares fuertes. Venezuela’s currency was considered hyperinflationary as of January 1, 2010 and further, in January 2010, Venezuela’s currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. We have evaluated the new exchange rate system and have concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in U.S. dollars until Venezuela’s currency is deemed to be non hyperinflationary. We recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in January 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction gains, net line item. In June 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in December 2010, the government of Venezuela announced that it is eliminating the preferential exchange rate. Neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 nor are they expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements prospectively.  

We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. We calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. This calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with GAAP nor should such amounts be considered in isolation.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008)  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation  

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income/(loss) from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below.  

Adjusted EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation.  

We use Adjusted EBITDA to consistently measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. In addition to Adjusted EBITDA being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-GAAP financial information is viewed with GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  

The below table presents a reconciliation from net income/(loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Other items include Transformation Initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million, $7 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also includes consulting and other costs of $16 million, $17 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation and fees associated with certain consulting arrangements. The 2010 amounts include preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock and the 2008 amounts include charges associated with a deferred compensation plan. Also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million, $12 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Consolidated Results for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the year ended December 31, 2009  

Revenues  

Our revenues increased 6.6% to $5,126 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $4,808 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 6.1% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were driven by an 8.9% increase within our Buy segment (8.2% on a constant currency basis) and a 3.9% increase within our Watch segment (3.7% on a constant currency basis), offset in part by a 6.6% decline in our Expositions segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis).  

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Cost of revenues increased 5.2% to $2,129 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $2,023 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases resulted from an 8.1% increase within our Buy segment (7.9% on a constant currency basis) due to the global expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment increased slightly due to volume while costs within our Expositions segment remained flat. Corporate costs increased by approximately $9 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 driven by certain infrastructure investments.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 8.3% to $1,648 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $1,523 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 7.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were driven by an 8.7% increase within our Buy segment (7.7% on a constant currency basis) due to increases in client service costs associated with the global expansion of our services as well as a 13.6% increase within our Watch segment both on an as-reported and constant currency basis due to increased investment in three-screen measurement initiatives. Corporate costs increased by approximately $15 million as a result of increased investment in global product initiatives, a $3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock consummated in January 2011. These increases were partially offset by a 36.8% decline in our Expositions segment due to the impact of cost savings initiatives.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expense was $558 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $557 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $215 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $247 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the Acquisition for certain software assets that became fully amortized during 2010. This decline was offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures.  

Restructuring Costs  

Transformation Initiative  

We recorded net credits of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with adjustments to previously established liabilities for employee severance and other benefits. We recorded $33 million in restructuring charges, primarily relating to severance costs, for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Other Productivity Initiatives  

We recorded $70 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended December 31, 2010. Of these amounts, approximately $11 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance charges associated with employee terminations.  

We recorded $29 million in restructuring charges associated with these initiatives during the year ended December 31, 2009. The charges included severance costs of $22 million, primarily in Europe as well as $7 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs.  

Operating Income  

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $730 million compared to operating income of $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating income of $454 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 within our Buy segment increased from $361 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating income within our Watch segment was $327 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating income within our Expositions segment was $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Corporate operating expenses increased to $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Interest Expense  

Interest expense was $660 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $647 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as increases in interest costs on debentures and our senior secured term loans were only partially offset by lower interest costs on derivative instruments.  

Loss on Derivative Instruments  

The loss on derivative instruments was $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The reduction in losses resulted from movements in the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar associated with a foreign currency swap derivative instrument, which was terminated in March 2009 as well as the maturity of $2.5 billion in notional amount of interest rate swaps between November 2009 and November 2010 for which hedge accounting was discontinued in February 2009 partially offset by a $9 million loss on a foreign currency forward contract in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Gains/(Losses), Net  

Foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the Euro. The average U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $1.39 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Foreign currency exchange resulted in a $136 million gain for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The gains in 2010 resulted primarily from the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro applied to certain of our Euro denominated senior secured term loans and debenture loans as well as fluctuations in certain currencies including the Euro and Canadian dollar associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio.  

Other Expense, Net  

Other expense, net of $81 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes net charges of approximately $90 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the amount redeemed as well as all €150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. The charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. These charges were partially offset by gains attributable to business divestitures. Other expense, net of $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily included net charges of approximately $19 million associated with the purchase and cancellation of GBP 250 million 5.625% EMTN debenture notes and the write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the modification of our senior secured credit facility offset by net gains of associated with certain divestitures.  

Income/(Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Income/(Loss) of Affiliates  

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates was $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $603 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The change primarily relates to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in September 2009, lower derivative losses, higher foreign currency exchange transaction gains and improved business performance primarily attributable to revenue growth.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax benefit rates for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were (45)% and 33%, respectively. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was higher than the statutory  

46  

Table of Contents 

 rate primarily due to the favorable effect of certain foreign currency exchange gains, financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was higher than the statutory tax rate primarily due to state and foreign withholding and income taxes and the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, which is partially offset by impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the underlying book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit.  

At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $114 million and $129 million, respectively. We also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 of $25 million and $23 million, respectively. Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our benefit (provision) for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $7 million to $16 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes.  

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.  

Equity in Net Income/(Loss) of Affiliates  

Equity in net income of affiliates was $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. During the third quarter of 2009 we concluded that the carrying value of our non-controlling ownership interest in Scarborough Research (“Scarborough”) was impaired as a result of continued declines in customer discretionary spending and the related impact on the launch of new performance tracking and marketing products. We deemed this impairment to be other than temporary and, accordingly, recorded an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $26 million (net of tax of $18 million).  

Discontinued Operations  

For the year ended December 31, 2010, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $22 million compared to a loss of $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Discontinued operations primarily relate to our Publications operating segment. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the cessation of operations during 2010 as well as a $7 million charge (net of tax of $5 million) associated with the settlement of an outstanding lawsuit. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes goodwill impairment charges of $55 million.  

Adjusted EBITDA  

Our Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.5% to $1,411 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $1,312 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 6.8% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 27.52% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 27.28% for the year ended December 31, 2009. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008)” for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to Adjusted EBITDA.  

Consolidated Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the year ended December 31, 2008  

Revenues  

Our revenues were flat at $4,808 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $4,806 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 4.0% on a constant currency basis, which excludes the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our revenue performance included a 10.5%  

47  

Table of Contents 

 increase within our Watch segment (11.5% on a constant currency basis), a 2.9% decrease within our Buy segment (a 2.7% increase on a constant currency basis) and a 25.1% decline in our Expositions segment (24.6% on a constant currency basis).  

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Cost of revenues decreased 1.6% to $2,023 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $2,057 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 2.6% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 4.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The change in cost of revenues was driven by a 4.0% increase from the impact of acquisitions and divestitures within both our Buy and Watch segments (4.2% increase on a constant currency basis) offset by cost savings due to the effects of the Transformation Initiative (see discussion below under “ – Restructuring Costs – Transformation Initiative”) and other productivity initiatives. Cost of revenues within our Expositions segment decreased 30.6% (29.8% on a constant currency basis) due to lower variable exhibition costs.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

SG&A expenses decreased 5.7% to $1,523 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $1,616 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease of 1.5% on a constant currency basis excluding a 4.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. SG&A expenses declined 44.6% and 14.9% (44.9% and 14.6% on a constant currency basis) in Corporate and our Expositions segments, respectively, which was slightly offset by a 3.5% increase (3.7% on a constant currency basis) due to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures in both our Buy and Watch segments.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased to $557 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $499 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased slightly to $247 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulting from higher amortization on acquired intangible assets in 2009. Additionally, there were increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures for software and infrastructure development equipment projects to enhance our technology platform and global infrastructure.  

Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

During 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $282 million and a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $245 million. These charges related to both our Watch and Expositions segments. A deferred tax benefit of $103 million was recognized during the period as a result of these impairment charges. We recorded a $96 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to a reporting unit within our Watch segment in 2008. A deferred tax benefit of $7 million was recognized during the period as a result of this impairment charge.  

Restructuring Costs  

Transformation Initiative  

The Transformation Initiative was completed during 2009. We incurred $33 million in restructuring charges primarily relating to severance costs for the year ended December 31, 2009. We recorded $118 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2008. The charges included severance costs as well as $24 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Other Productivity Initiatives  

In December 2009, we commenced certain specific restructuring actions attributable to defined cost-reduction programs, primarily in Europe and North America, directed towards achieving increased productivity in future periods. We recorded $29 million in restructuring charges associated with these initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2009. The charges included severance costs of $22 million as well as $7 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs.  

See Note 8 – Restructuring Activities – to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.  

Operating Income  

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased to $116 million, from $420 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating income within our Buy segment increased to $361 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating loss within our Watch segment was $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to income of $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating loss within our Expositions segment was $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to income of $50 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating expenses within Corporate decreased to $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Interest Income and Expense  

Interest income was $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Interest expense was $647 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $701 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was driven primarily by the termination and subsequent capitalization of the term loan with Luxco and the impact of interest allocations to discontinued operations, slightly offset by higher interest expense on our debenture loan portfolio as a result of new debt issuances in 2009.  

Loss on Derivative Instruments  

The loss on derivative instruments was $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a loss of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increased loss resulted primarily from the change in fair value of certain of our interest rate swaps for which hedge accounting was discontinued in February 2009 as well as losses attributable to movements in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar associated with a foreign currency swap derivative instrument, which was terminated in March 2009.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Gains/(Losses), Net  

Foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the Euro. The average U.S. dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.39 to €1.00 and $1.47 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively.  

Foreign currency exchange resulted in a $2 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a $20 million gain recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily as a result of the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Euro applied to certain of our Euro denominated senior secured term loans and debenture loans as well as a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Other Expense, Net  

Other expense, net was $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 amount primarily includes net charges of approximately $15 million associated with the purchase and cancellation of GBP 250 million 5.625% EMTN debenture notes and the write-off of deferred debt issuance costs associated with the modification of our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities offset in part by net gains primarily associated with certain divestitures, including the sale of our Brazilian operations within our Expositions segment.  

Loss from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Loss of Affiliates  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, loss from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity in net loss of affiliates was $603 million compared to a $271 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. The current period compared with the prior period results primarily reflects impairment of goodwill and intangible assets offset in part by lower restructuring expenses, lower interest costs and increased operating performance, primarily driven by cost reduction programs.  

Equity in Net Loss of Affiliates  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, equity in net loss of affiliates was $22 million compared to $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily driven by an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $26 million (net of a tax adjustment of $18 million) associated with our non-controlling ownership interest in Scarborough in the third quarter of 2009.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were a benefit of 33% and an expense of (13)%, respectively. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was higher than the Dutch statutory rate primarily due to state and foreign withholding and income taxes and the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, which is partially offset by impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the underlying book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit.  

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was lower than the Dutch statutory rate primarily due to the impairment of goodwill, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit, tax on distribution from foreign subsidiaries, change in estimates related to global uncertain tax positions, state and foreign withholding and income taxes, change in estimates for other tax positions and certain non-deductible charges, which were partially offset by the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns.  

Discontinued Operations  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax of $31 million, was $61 million compared to a $275 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. Discontinued operations primarily relate to our Publications operating segment and the loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes a net loss on the sale of our media properties within the Publications operating segment, including The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, to e5 Global Media LLC, of $14 million, net of tax of $3 million. Additionally, losses for both 2009 and 2008 include goodwill impairment charges associated with our Publications operating segment of $55 million and $336 million, respectively. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 is partially offset by a gain of $19 million relating to the settlement of tax contingencies associated with the sale of our Directories segment to World Directories.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Adjusted EBITDA  

Our Adjusted EBITDA increased 8.9% to $1,312 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $1,205 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 27.28% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 25.06% for the year ended December 31, 2008. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008)” for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to Adjusted EBITDA.  

Business Segment Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009  

Revenues  

The table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 8.9% to $3,260 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $2,993 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 8.2% on a constant currency basis driven by a 20.6% increase in Developing markets (16.7% on a constant currency basis) and a 4.4% increase in Developed markets (4.8% on a constant currency basis), as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services.  

Revenues from Information services increased 6.1% to $2,288 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $2,157 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 5.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were driven by 16.9% growth in Developing Markets (13.3% on a constant currency basis) as a result of continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers and new markets. Revenue from Developed Markets increased 2.0% (2.3% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in Western Europe and North America, primarily to existing customers, was offset by the impact of the divestiture of our box office scanning business.  

Revenues from Insights services increased 16.2% to $972 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $836 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 15.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.0% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were driven by strong growth in both Developed and Developing Markets due to increases in customer discretionary spending on new product forecasting and other analytical services, which can be cyclical in nature.  

Watch Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 3.9% to $1,698 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $1,635 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or 3.7% on a constant currency basis. Television measurement grew 3.0% as  

51  

Table of Contents 

 increases in spending from existing customers offset declines attributable to a planned international market closure. Online and Mobile grew 9.2% as increases in both new and existing customer spending were offset slightly by the timing of certain client deliverables as compared to the prior year.  

Expositions Segment Revenues  

Revenues declined 6.6% to $168 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $180 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily as a result of softness in both the building industry and retail sector tradeshows.  

Business Segment Profitability  

We do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-GAAP business segment profitability. Non-GAAP business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. When this non-GAAP financial information is viewed with our GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. It is important to note that the non-GAAP business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to consistently measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. These non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Other items include Transformation Initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Also includes consulting and other costs of $16 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock. Also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

52  

Table of Contents 

 (2) Includes $402 million goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges within our Watch segment in 2009 and $125 million within our Expositions segment in 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy. Operating income increased 25.8% to $454 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $361 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to the strong revenue performance mentioned above as well as lower restructuring costs and depreciation and amortization, offset in part by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and investments in Developing Markets expansion. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 8.9% on a constant currency basis.  

Watch. Operating income was $327 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 and the revenue performance discussed above, which was offset by the impact of the planned international market closure, $25 million in increased depreciation and amortization expense associated with technology infrastructure initiatives and Local People Meters and increased investment in three-screen measurement initiatives. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 4.2% on a constant currency basis.  

Expositions. Operating income was $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 as well as lower depreciation expense and the costs savings effects of the Transformation Initiative and other productivity initiatives. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 22.3% on a constant currency basis.  

Corporate and Eliminations. Operating loss was $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to an operating loss of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to increases in certain product investments and global infrastructure costs as well as higher restructuring charges and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock. Non-GAAP business segment loss increased 49.2% on a constant currency basis.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Business Segment Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the year ended December 31, 2008  

Revenues  

The table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. In order to determine the percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, we remove the positive and negative impacts of changes foreign currency exchange rates:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy Segment Revenues  

Revenues decreased 2.9% to $2,993 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $3,084 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 2.7% on a constant currency basis as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. Revenue from Developing Markets decreased 2.6% (an 8.0% increase on a constant currency basis) and revenue from Developed Markets decreased 3.1% (a 0.8% increase on a constant currency basis).  

Revenues from Information services decreased 4.7% to $2,157 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $2,262 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 1.7%, on a constant currency basis excluding a 6.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue from Developing Markets declined 4.0%, however, was the primary driver for the constant currency increase mentioned above, increasing 7.5% on a constant currency basis as a result of continued geographic expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers.  

Revenues from Insights services increased 1.8% to $836 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $822 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, or 5.3% on a constant currency basis excluding a 3.5% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were driven by 0.8% growth in Developing Markets (8.9% on a constant currency basis) and the impact of acquisitions. The growth in Developing Markets related to continued expansion of our analytical services, primarily to existing customers who are expanding their presence in these markets.  

Watch Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 10.5% to $1,635 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $1,480 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, or 11.5% on a constant currency basis. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenue grew 1.7% (2.6% on a constant currency basis) as our television audience market expansion was offset by lower spending by our customers on enhanced analytical services. This growth was primarily driven by a 4.7% constant currency increase in North American television measurement due to volume increases associated with measurement data from five additional markets being added to the Local People Meter (“LPM”) program.  

Expositions Segment Revenues  

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 25.1% to $180 million from $240 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, due largely to lower exhibitor attendance driven by the economic environment.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Business Segment Profitability  

The tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes $402 million and $96 million of goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges within our Watch segment in 2009 and 2008, respectively and $125 million within our Expositions segment in 2009.  

 (2) Other items include Transformation Initiative dual running costs of $7 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also includes consulting and other costs of $17 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and charges associated with a deferred compensation plan. Also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy. Operating income increased to $361 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to lower restructuring charges, the revenue growth mentioned above and the effects of the Transformation Initiative and other productivity initiatives. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 10.5% on a constant currency basis.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Watch. Operating loss was $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to operating income of $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to increases in restructuring and impairment charges offset by the revenue growth mentioned above and cost savings from the impact of our Transformation Initiative. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 16.7% on a constant currency basis.  

Expositions. Operating loss was $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to operating income of $50 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to intangible asset impairment charges as well as declines in our revenues due to the economic environment. Non-GAAP business segment income decreased 31.2% on a constant currency basis.  

Corporate and Eliminations. Operating loss was $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Non-GAAP business segment loss decreased 46.6% on a constant currency basis. These decreases were due to lower expenses on certain product initiatives as well as cost savings from the impact of the Transformation Initiative.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Overview and 2011 Capital Markets Transactions  

As a result of the Acquisition and related financing, our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. At December 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents were $421 million and our total indebtedness was $8,558 million. In addition, we also had $668 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010. Our cash interest paid for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $531 million, $495 million and $494 million, respectively.  

On January 31, 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 82,142,858 shares of our €0.07 par value common stock at a price of $23.00 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1,804 million, net of $85 million of underwriter discounts.  

Concurrent with our offering of common stock, we issued $288 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Mandatory Convertible Subordinated Bonds due February 1, 2013 (“the Bonds”), generating proceeds of approximately $277 million, net of $11 million of underwriter discounts. Interest on the Bonds will be payable quarterly in arrears in February, May, August and November of each year, commencing in May 2011. The Bonds will be mandatorily converted into between 10,416,700 and 12,499,925 shares of our common stock on February 1, 2013 at a conversion rate per $50.00 principal amount of the bonds of not more than 2.1739 shares and not less than 1.8116 shares depending on the market value of our common stock (the average of the volume weighted-average price of our common stock for a 20 consecutive trading day period beginning on the 25th trading day immediately preceding February 1, 2013) relative to the initial price and the threshold appreciation price per share of $23.00 and $27.60, respectively.  

We utilized substantially all of the combined net proceeds of approximately $2,081 million associated with the aforementioned transactions to settle certain advisory agreements with the Sponsors (See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, “Investments in Affiliates and Related Party Transactions” for information regarding these advisory agreements) and redeem and retire certain issuances of our long-term indebtedness as follows:  

   •    On January 31, 2011, each of our subsidiaries party to certain advisory agreements agreed, along with the Sponsors, to terminate all such agreements in exchange for a settlement of $102 million. We will record this pre-tax amount as an expense to our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011.  

   •    On February 9, 2011, we paid approximately $201 million to redeem $164 million of our outstanding $467 million ($500 million aggregate principal amount) 11.50% Senior Discount Notes Due 2016 with  

56  

Table of Contents 

     a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. We will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $34 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption.  

   •    On February 9, 2011, we paid approximately $129 million to redeem $107 million of our outstanding $307 million ($330 million aggregate principal amount) 11.625% Senior Discount Notes Due 2014 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. We will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $23 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption.  

   •    On February 25, 2011, we paid approximately $1,133 million to redeem all of our outstanding $999 million ($1,070 million aggregate principal amount) 12 1/2% Senior Subordinated Discount Notes Due 2016 at a price of 105.89% of the aggregate principal amount. We will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $123 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption.  

   •    On February 25, 2011, we paid approximately $251 million to redeem €163 million (€174 million aggregate principal amount) of our 11.125% Senior Discount Debenture Loan due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. We will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $26 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption.  

   •    On March 2, 2011 we anticipate paying approximately $244 million to redeem €159 million (€169 million aggregate principal amount) 11.125% senior discount debenture loan due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. We will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $25 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. Following this transaction all our outstanding 11.125% senior discount debenture notes will have been redeemed.  

Considering the result of only the aforementioned transactions, our total indebtedness of $8,558 million as of December 31, 2010 will be reduced to approximately $7,149 million. Although we continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness, we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. We expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, and capital spending over the next year. In addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. It is possible that continued changes to global economic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows through increased interest costs or our ability to obtain external financing or to refinance existing indebtedness. Refer to the subsequent events section below for a discussion of certain capital markets activities occurring subsequent to December 31, 2010.  

Financing Transactions  

Senior Secured Credit Facilities  

The description of the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities below is as of December 31, 2010. On August 12, 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities. See “Overview of Financing Transactions” for further information on the 2010 Amendment.  

The senior secured credit agreement provides for two term loan facilities of $1,610 million and €227 million maturing in 2013 and four term loan facilities, including two dollar-denominated term loan facilities totaling  

57  

Table of Contents 

 $2,386 million and two Euro-denominated term loan facilities totaling €273 million, maturing in 2016, for which total outstanding borrowings were $4,481 million at December 31, 2010. In addition, the senior secured credit agreement contains a six-year $688 million senior secured revolving credit facility under which we had no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We had an aggregate of $20 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2010, which reduced our total borrowing capacity to $668 million. The senior secured revolving credit facility of Nielsen Finance LLC, The Nielsen Company (US), Inc., Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. can be used for revolving loans, letters of credit, guarantees and for swingline loans, and is available in U.S. dollars, Euros and certain other currencies. See “Overview of Financing Transactions” section for further information on transactions relating to these facilities.  

We are required to repay installments only on the borrowings under the two senior secured term loan facilities maturing in 2016 in quarterly principal amounts of 0.25% of their original principal amount, with the remaining amount payable on their maturity date.  

Borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or (2) the prime rate or (b) a LIBOR rate for the currency of such borrowings (collectively, the “Base Rate”), plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margins for the senior secured term loans that mature in 2013 vary depending on our secured leverage ratio. The applicable margins for two of the senior secured term loans that mature in 2016 are set at a fixed rate and the margin for the remaining 2016 term loans vary depending upon our total leverage and credit rating.  

Borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus the Base Rate. The applicable margins for the senior secured revolving credit facility vary depending on our total leverage ratio. We pay a quarterly commitment fee (currently 0.375%) on unused commitments under the senior secured revolving facility. The applicable commitment fee rate may vary subject to us attaining certain leverage ratios.  

Our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) (collectively, the “Credit Facilities Covenant Parties”) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business the Credit Facilities Covenant Parties conduct. In addition, the Credit Facilities Covenant Parties are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Neither Nielsen Holdings nor TNC B.V. is bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. The senior secured credit facilities also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. We have maintained compliance with all such covenants described above.  

Pursuant to our senior secured credit facilities, commencing in 2008, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our senior secured credit facilities to the extent in any full calendar year we generate Excess Cash Flow (“ECF”), as defined in the credit agreement. The percentage of ECF that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to Covenant EBITDA (as defined below), as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. To the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ECF clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. In 2010 our operations realized ECF, but no mandatory repayment is required due to our making voluntary repayments in the course of the year and our year-end total net debt to Covenant EBITDA ratio. Our next ECF measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2011 results, and therefore it is uncertain at this time if we will be required to make any corresponding mandatory prepayments in early 2012.  

58  

Table of Contents 

In June 2009, we entered into a Senior Secured Loan Agreement with Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC, which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the “New Term Loans”) bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. The New Term Loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and have a maturity of eight years. The net proceeds from the issuance of the New Term Loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan obligations under our existing senior secured credit facilities.  

In addition, the New Term Loans include negative covenants, subject to significant exceptions, restricting or limiting the ability of the Credit Facilities Covenant Parties to, among other things, incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates and enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions. Neither Nielsen Holdings nor TNC B.V. is bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. The New Term Loans also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default.  

Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities are guaranteed by TNC B.V., substantially all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets (other than cash) of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. Under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of TNC B.V. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities.  

Debt Securities  

In August 2006, we received proceeds of €200 million ($257 million) on the issuance by TNC B.V. of the €343 million 11.125% senior discount notes due 2016 (“Senior Discount Notes”), with a carrying value of $427 million at December 31, 2010. Interest accretes through 2011 and is payable semi-annually commencing February 2012. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the existing and future senior indebtedness of TNC B.V. The notes are effectively subordinated to the existing and future secured indebtedness of TNC B.V. to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness and will be structurally subordinated to all obligations of the subsidiaries of TNC B.V.  

In August 2006, we issued $1,070 million 12.5% senior subordinated discount notes due 2016 (“Senior Subordinated Discount Notes”), with a carrying value of $999 million at December 31, 2010. Interest accretes through 2011 and is payable semi-annually commencing February 2012. The Senior Subordinated Discount Notes are unsecured senior subordinated obligations and are subordinated in right of payment to all Nielsen’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and the senior secured credit facilities.  

In August 2006, we issued $650 million 10% and €150 million 9% senior notes due 2014. Interest is payable semi-annually from February 2007. On April 16, 2008, we issued $220 million aggregate principal amount of 10% Senior Notes due 2014. Cash interest accrues at a rate of 10% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from August 2008. In November and December 2010 we redeemed all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the amount redeemed as well as all €150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. The redemption and subsequent retirement of these collective notes resulted in a loss of $90 million associated with the redemption option premium and recognition of previously deferred debt issuance costs recorded as a component of other expense/(income) in the consolidated statement of operations in the fourth quarter of 2010. These redemptions were consummated using the proceeds from the issuance of a combined $1,080 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 discussed further below.  

59  

Table of Contents 

In January 2009, we issued $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.625% Senior Notes due 2014 (the “11.625% Senior Notes”). The 11.625% Senior Notes mature on February 1, 2014. Cash interest accrues at a rate of 11.625% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from August 2009.  

On May 1, 2009, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 11.5% Senior Notes due 2016 (the “11.5% Senior Notes”). The 11.5% Senior Notes mature on May 1, 2016. Cash interest accrues at a rate of 11.5% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from November 2009.  

In October and November 2010, we issued a combined $1,080 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at an issue price of $1,085 million with cash proceeds of approximately $1,065 million, net of fees and expenses.  

The senior notes above are collectively referred to herein as the “Senior Notes.” The carrying values of the combined issuances of the Senior Notes were $1,858 million at December 31, 2010. The Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the existing and future senior indebtedness of Nielsen Finance LLC and Nielsen Finance Co.  

The indentures governing the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Discount Notes limit the ability of Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute a majority of Nielsen’s subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. Upon a change in control, Nielsen Finance LLC and Nielsen Finance Co. are required to make an offer to redeem all of the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Discount Notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Discount Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by TNC B.V., substantially all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of TNC B.V.  

EMTN Program and Other Financing Arrangements  

We have a Euro Medium Term Note program (“EMTN”) program in place. All debt securities and most private placements are quoted on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. We had carrying values of $155 million outstanding under the EMTN program at December 31, 2010. We can no longer issue new debt under the EMTN program.  

Overview of Financing Transactions  

We entered into the following transactions in 2008:  

   •    In February 2008, we entered into a two-year interest rate swap agreement which fixed the LIBOR-related portion of the interest rates for $500 million of our variable rate debt.  

   •    Effective April 2, 2008, we obtained a 25 basis point reduction of the applicable margin on our U.S. dollar and Euro senior secured term loan facilities as a result of achieving a secured leverage ratio below 4.25 as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we obtained a 25 basis point reduction of the applicable margin on our senior secured revolving credit facility as a result of achieving a total leverage ratio below 6.0 as of December 31, 2007.  

   •    On April 16, 2008, we issued $220 million aggregate principal amount of 10% Senior Notes due 2014. The net proceeds of the offering were used to finance our acquisition of IAG and to pay related fees and expenses.  

60  

Table of Contents 

We entered into the following transactions in 2009:  

   •    In January 2009, we issued $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.625 % Senior Notes due 2014 at an issue price of $297 million with cash proceeds of approximately $290 million, net of fees and expenses.  

   •    In February 2009, we entered into two three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of November 9, 2009. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates for $500 million of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.47%. The commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with a $1 billion notional amount interest rate swap maturity that was entered into in November 2006. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

   •    In March 2009, we purchased and cancelled approximately GBP 101 million of our total GBP 250 million outstanding 5.625% EMTN debenture notes. This transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, a price of £940 per £1,000 in principal amount of the notes, plus accrued interest. In conjunction with the GBP note cancellation we satisfied, and paid in cash, a portion of the remarketing settlement value associated with the cancelled notes to the two holders of a remarketing option associated with the notes. In addition, we unwound a portion of our existing GBP/Euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. We recorded a net loss of $3 million as a result of the combined elements of this transaction in March 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. The net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $197 million.  

   •    In March 2009, we terminated €200 million notional to $259 million notional cross-currency swap, which previously converted part of our Euro-denominated external debt to U.S. dollar debt and received a cash settlement of approximately $2 million. No hedge designation was made for this swap and therefore all prior changes in fair value were recorded in earnings.  

   •    In April 2009, we issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.5% Senior Notes due 2016 at an issue price of $461 million with cash proceeds of approximately $452 million, net of fees and expenses.  

   •    In June 2009, we purchased and cancelled all of our remaining outstanding GBP 149 million 5.625% EMTN debenture notes. This transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, par value for the notes, plus accrued interest. In conjunction with the GBP note cancellation, we satisfied, and paid in cash, the remarketing settlement value to two holders of the remaining portion of the remarketing option associated with the notes. In addition, we unwound the remaining portion of our existing GBP/Euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. We recorded a net loss of approximately $12 million in June 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations as a result of the combined elements of this transaction. The net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $330 million.  

   •    In June 2009, we entered into a Senior Secured Loan Agreement with Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC, which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregated principal amount of $500 million (the “New Term Loans”) bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. The New Term Loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities and have a maturity of eight years. The net proceeds from the issuance of the New Term Loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan obligations under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities.  

   •    In June 2009, we received the requisite consent to amend our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities to permit, among other things: (i) future issuances of additional secured notes or loans, which may include, in each case, indebtedness secured on a pari passu basis with our obligations under the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities, so long as (a) the net cash proceeds from any such issuance are used  

61  

Table of Contents 

     to prepay term loans under the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities at par until $500 million of term loans have been paid, and (b) 90% of the net cash proceeds in excess of the first $500 million from any such issuance (but all of the net cash proceeds after the first $2.0 billion) are used to prepay term loans under the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities at par; and (ii) allow us to agree with lenders to extend the maturity of their term loans and revolving commitments and for us to pay increased interest rates or otherwise modify the terms of their loans in connection with such an extension (subject to certain limitations, including mandatory increases of interest rates under certain circumstances) (collectively, the “Amendment”). In connection with the Amendment, we extended the maturity of $1.26 billion of existing term loans from August 9, 2013 to May 1, 2016. The interest rate margins of term loans that were extended were increased to 3.75%. The Amendment and the subsequent extension of maturity of a portion of the existing term loans is considered a modification of our existing obligations and has been reflected as such in the audited consolidated financial statements. We recorded a charge of approximately $4 million in June 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily relating to the write-off of previously deferred debt issuance costs as a result of this modification.  

   •    In December 2009, we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due August 2013.  

We entered into the following transactions during 2010:  

   •    On March 9, 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of the our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. This swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured on February 9, 2010. This derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge.  

   •    In May 2010, our €50 million variable rate EMTN matured and was repaid.  

   •    On August 12, 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities. In connection with completing the term loan extension offer and in order to document the terms of the new Class C term loans, as of such date we entered into an amendment to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities (the “2010 Amendment”). Pursuant to the term loan extension offer and the 2010 Amendment, approximately $1,495 million of our Class A term loans (which mature August 2013) and approximately $5 million of our Class B term loans (which mature May 2016) were exchanged for the same principal amount of new Class C term loans. The new Class C term loans mature on May 1, 2016 and bear a tiered floating interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin of (x) 3.75% to the extent that Nielsen Finance LLC’s Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities) is greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and (y) 3.50% to the extent that Nielsen Finance LLC’s Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities) is less than or equal to 5.0 to 1.0. The foregoing margins are also subject to a decrease of 0.25% in the event and for so long as Nielsen Finance LLC’s corporate credit and/or family rating, as applicable, from either S&P or Moody’s is at least BB- or Ba3, respectively. The Class C term loans will amortize in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount. No optional prepayments of Class C term loans may be made so long as any Class A or Class B term loans are outstanding. Except as set forth in the 2010 Amendment, the Class C term loans shall have the same terms as the Class B term loans.  

   •    On October 12, 2010, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at an issue price of $745 million with cash proceeds of approximately $731 million, net of fees and expenses. On November 9, 2010, we issued an additional $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at an issue price of $340 million with cash proceeds of approximately $334 million, net of fees and expenses.  

   •    We used the net proceeds from the aforementioned issuances, along with cash on hand, to fund a redemption of the remaining all of our 10% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 105% and all of our  

62  

Table of Contents 

     9% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% in separate transactions in November and December 2010. The redemption and retirement of these notes resulted in a loss of approximately $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

   •    In October and November 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of November 9, 2010. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. The commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured on November 9, 2010. Additionally, on November 1, 2010 we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of November 9, 2011, which fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

   •    We elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due August 2013 during 2010.  

Cash Flows 2010 versus 2009  

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $543 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $517 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The primary driver for the increase in cash provided by operating activities was the growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization, partially offset by the reduction in working capital performance and higher interest payments. The reduction in working capital performance resulted primarily from an approximately $116 million reduction due to strong accounts receivable collections in 2009 and the timing of client billings. Our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (DBO), remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a decrease of 5 days to 50 days for the year ended December 31, 2009. These reductions were only partially offset by the timing of employee compensation and other accruals as well as lower restructuring and tax payments.  

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $227 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The drivers for the increase in the usage of cash from investing activities were the increase in capital expenditures and lower proceeds from sales of subsidiaries.  

Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $263 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $271 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We repaid our €50 million EMTN in May 2010 and repaid $295 million on our senior secured revolving credit facility in 2009 and executed numerous financing transactions in 2010 and 2009 described under the “Overview of Financing Transactions” section above.  

Cash Flows 2009 versus 2008  

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $517 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $317 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The primary drivers for the increase in cash flows from operating activities were growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization and impairment charges. This growth was further driven by improved working capital performance, offset slightly by an increase in tax payments. The improved working capital performance primarily resulted from a benefit of approximately $149 million relating to improvement in year-over-year accounts receivable collections as well as lower bonus payments. Our DBO decreased by five days to 50 days during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to an increase of four days to 55 days during the year ended December 31, 2008.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $227 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $591 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The lower net cash usage was primarily driven by lower acquisition payments as a result of our acquisition of IAG in May 2008 as well as lower capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of divestitures in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of the media properties within our Publications operating segment in December 2009.  

Financing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had net cash used in financing activities of $271 million as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $367 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The comparative use of cash was mainly driven by our repayments of $295 million on our revolving credit facility in 2009 as compared to net borrowings of $285 million in 2008 as well as the results of the financing transactions described above under the “Overview of Financing Transactions” section above.  

Capital Expenditures  

Investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $334 million, $282 million and $370 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in capital expenditures in 2010 as compared to 2009 related to significant investments in technology infrastructure development. The decrease in capital spending in 2009 versus 2008 was due to a reduction in LPM spending as well as the substantial completion of other key investments in 2008 and early 2009 such as our rollout of the LPM, active/passive Meter and the expansion of the National People Meter as well as the data factory systems in U.S. and Europe.  

Covenant EBITDA Attributable to TNC B.V.  

Our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain a covenant that requires our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries, to maintain a maximum ratio of consolidated total net debt, excluding certain TNC B.V. net debt, to Covenant EBITDA, calculated for the trailing four quarters (as determined under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities). Currently, the maximum ratio is 7.5 to 1.0, with such maximum ratio declining over time to 6.25 to 1.0 for periods after October 1, 2012.  

In addition, our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain a covenant that requires Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries to maintain a minimum ratio of Covenant EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense, including interest expense relating to TNC B.V., calculated for the trailing four quarters (as determined under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities). Currently, the minimum ratio is 1.75 to 1.0, with such minimum ratio varying between 1.75 and 1.0 to 1.50 to 1.0 for subsequent periods.  

Failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities unless waived by our senior credit lenders. An event of default under our senior credit facility can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. As our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities and these covenants are material to us. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants described above.  

We also measure the ratio of secured net debt to Covenant EBITDA, as it impacts the applicable borrowing margin under our senior secured term loans due 2013. During periods when the ratio is less than 4.25 to 1.0, the applicable margin is 25 basis points lower than it would be otherwise. As of December 31, 2010, this ratio was less than 4.25 to 1.0.  

Covenant earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Covenant EBITDA”) is a non-GAAP measure used to determine our compliance with certain covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities. Covenant EBITDA is defined in our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities as net income/(loss)  

64  

Table of Contents 

 from continuing operations for TNC B.V., as adjusted for the items summarized in the table below. Covenant EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Covenant EBITDA varies from others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. Covenant EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. Covenant EBITDA has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Because of these limitations we rely primarily on our GAAP results. However, we believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Covenant EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with our financing covenants.  

The following is a reconciliation of TNC B.V.’s income from continuing operations, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, to Covenant EBITDA as defined above under our 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facilities:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

65  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Unusual or non-recurring items include (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (2) These adjustments include the pro forma EBITDA impact of businesses that were acquired or divested during the last twelve months, loss on sale of fixed assets, dividends received from affiliates, equity in net income of affiliates, and the exclusion of Covenant EBITDA attributable to unrestricted subsidiaries.  

 (3) Net debt, including net debt of TNC B.V., is not a defined term under GAAP. Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2010 excluding a contractual $10 million threshold and cash and cash equivalents of unrestricted subsidiaries of $7 million.  

 (4) Consolidated interest expense is not a defined term under GAAP. Consolidated interest expense for any period is defined in our senior secured credit facilities as the sum of (i) the cash interest expense of Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its subsidiaries with respect to all outstanding indebtedness, including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers’ acceptance and net costs under swap contracts, net of cash interest income, and (ii) any cash payments in respect of the accretion or accrual of discounted liabilities during such period related to borrowed money (with a maturity of more than one year) that were amortized or accrued in a previous period, excluding, in each case, however, among other things, the amortization of deferred financing costs and any other amounts of non-cash interest, the accretion or accrual of discounted liabilities during such period, commissions, discounts, yield and other fees and charges incurred in connection with certain permitted receivables financing and all non-recurring cash interest expense consisting of liquidated damages for failure to timely comply with registration rights obligations and financing fees.  

See “ – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information on our indebtedness and covenants.  

Transactions with Related Parties  

We recorded $12 million, $12 million and $11 million, respectively, in SG&A related to management fees payable to the Sponsors under advisory agreements, sponsor travel and consulting for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. From the date of acquisition through December 31, 2010, we have paid $53 million in these fees to the Sponsors. In January 2011 in conjunction with our initial public offering of common stock, the Advisory Agreements with the Sponsors were terminated for a settlement amount of $102 million.  

In May 2006, Luxco, our direct parent, executed a loan agreement with us for principal amount Euro 500 million in conjunction with the Acquisition. The loan accreted interest at 10% per annum and was payable annually at the request of Luxco or Nielsen. If interest was not paid at the end of each year, such interest was deemed capitalized. No interest was paid on this loan through December 31, 2008 and the corresponding carrying value at such date, including capitalized interest, was $892 million. In January 2009, the loan agreement was terminated and the underlying carrying value, including accrued interest, was capitalized by Luxco in exchange for 48,958,043 shares in our common stock. We recorded $3 million and $86 million in interest expense associated with this loan for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

66  

Table of Contents 

We have periodically extended loans to Luxco to permit Luxco to pay certain operational expenses and to fund share repurchases. The full principal amount of and accrued interest on each such loan is payable at maturity, which is generally one year or less from incurrence. The rate of interest on these loans has ranged from 3.47% to 7.7%. At December 31, 2009, approximately $4 million of principal amount of loans to Luxco were outstanding. On September 30, 2010 and in conjunction with the special dividend declared to all of our existing stockholders, the approximately $5 million in outstanding loans from Luxco were settled.  

A portion of the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility as well as certain of our senior debenture loans have been purchased by certain of the Sponsors in market transactions not involving us. Based on information made available to us, amounts held by the Sponsors and their affiliates were $599 million and $554 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest expense associated with amounts held by the Sponsors and their affiliates approximated $29 million, $16 million and $22 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2010, $564 million of the senior secured credit facilities and $35 million of senior debenture loans were held by the Sponsors and their affiliates. Of the $599 million of debt held by the Sponsors and their affiliates, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and their affiliates held $258 million, The Blackstone Group and their affiliates held $204 million and The Carlyle Group and their affiliates held $137 million. The Sponsors, their subsidiaries, affiliates and controlling stockholders may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, seek to purchase debt securities issued by Nielsen or its subsidiaries or affiliates in open market or privately negotiated transactions or by other means. We make no undertaking to disclose any such transactions except as may be required by applicable laws and regulations.  

Effective January 1, 2009, we entered into an employer health program arrangement with Equity Healthcare LLC (“Equity Healthcare”). Equity Healthcare negotiates with providers of standard administrative services for health benefit plans and other related services for cost discounts, quality of service monitoring, data services and clinical consulting and oversight by Equity Healthcare. Because of the combined purchasing power of its client participants, Equity Healthcare is able to negotiate pricing terms from providers that are believed to be more favorable than the companies could obtain for themselves on an individual basis. Equity Healthcare is an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, one of our Sponsors.  

In consideration for Equity Healthcare’s provision of access to these favorable arrangements and its monitoring of the contracted third parties’ delivery of contracted services to us, we pay Equity Healthcare a fee of $2 per participating employee per month (“PEPM Fee”). As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 8,000 employees enrolled in our self-insured health benefit plans in the United States. Equity Healthcare may also receive a fee (“Health Plan Fees”) from one or more of the health plans with whom Equity Healthcare has contractual arrangements if the total number of employees joining such health plans from participating companies exceeds specified thresholds.  

Commitments and Contingencies  

Outsourced Services Agreements  

On February 19, 2008, we amended and restated our Master Services Agreement dated June 16, 2004 (“MSA”), with Tata America International Corporation and Tata Consultancy Services Limited (jointly “TCS”). The term of the amended and restated MSA is for ten years, effective October 1, 2007; with a one year renewal option granted to us, during which ten year period (or if we exercise our renewal option, eleven year period) we have committed to purchase at least $1 billion in services from TCS. Unless mutually agreed, the payment rates for services under the amended and restated MSA are not subject to adjustment due to inflation or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. TCS will provide us with Information Technology, Applications Development and Maintenance and Business Process Outsourcing services globally. The amount of the purchase commitment may be reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement.  

67  

Table of Contents 

In addition, in 2008, we entered into an agreement with TCS to outsource our global IT Infrastructure services. The agreement has an initial term of seven years, and provides for TCS to manage our infrastructure costs at an agreed upon level and to provide Nielsen’s infrastructure services globally for an annual service charge of $39 million per year, which applies towards the satisfaction of our aforementioned purchased services commitment with TCS of at least $1 billion over the term of the amended and restated MSA. The agreement is subject to earlier termination under certain limited conditions.  

Other Contractual Obligations. Our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations, facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal on debt and pension fund obligations.  

At December 31, 2010, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $139 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $25 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. See Note 13 – Income Taxes – to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in Note 10 – Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements – to our consolidated financial statements. Other debt includes bank overdrafts of $8 million due within one year. These amounts have been adjusted to reflect the subsequent events described in Note 19 – Subsequent Events. The $288 million of Mandatory Convertible Subordinated Bonds due February 1, 2013 has been excluded as these bonds will convert into shares of our common stock upon maturity and will not result in a cash payment of principal.  

 (b) Our operating lease obligations are described in Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies – to our consolidated financial statements.  

 (c) Other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. We generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. The amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. Our remaining commitments under the outsourced services agreements with TCS have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations.  

 (d) Interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. See Note 10 – Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements – to our consolidated financial statements. These amounts have been adjusted to reflect the subsequent events described in Note 19 – Subsequent Events. Interest payments associated with the $288 million of Mandatory Convertible Subordinated Bonds due February 1, 2013 have been included as it is assumed such payments will be made in cash.  

68  

Table of Contents 

 (e) Our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $30 million, $44 million and $49 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Future pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2011. See Note 9 – Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits – to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations.  

Guarantees and Other Contingent Commitments  

At December 31, 2010, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements:  

Sub-lease guarantees. We provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. To date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded.  

Letters of credit. Letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $20 million at December 31, 2010.  

Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. In addition to the legal proceedings described below and in Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies – to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. Accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. While the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we do expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. However, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.  

Sunbeam Television Corp. Sunbeam Television Corp. (“Sunbeam”) filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Miami, Florida on April 30, 2009. The lawsuit alleged that Nielsen Media Research, Inc. violated Federal and Florida state antitrust laws and Florida’s unfair trade practices laws by attempting to maintain a monopoly and abuse its position in the market, and breached its contract with Sunbeam by producing defective ratings data through its sampling methodology. The complaint did not specify the amount of damages sought and also sought declaratory and equitable relief. On January 13, 2011 the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of Florida dismissed all federal and state antitrust claims brought against Nielsen by Sunbeam stating that Sunbeam failed to show that any competitor was “willing and able” to enter the local television ratings market in Miami and was excluded from that market by Nielsen. The Court also determined that Sunbeam could not prove that the current ratings for Sunbeam’s local station WSVN are less accurate than they would be under a prospective competitor’s methodology. The Court deferred ruling on the remaining ancillary claims, including breach of contract and violation of Florida’s Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act. Subsequent to the court’s decision, Sunbeam voluntarily dismissed with prejudice the remaining claims in the case so that all claims have been dismissed. Sunbeam has appealed the court’s dismissal of the antitrust claims.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.  

Summary of Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

Business Combinations  

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a revised standard for accounting for business combinations, which was effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15,  

69  

Table of Contents 

 2008 and applies to all business combinations. The standard provides that, upon initially obtaining control, an acquirer shall recognize 100 percent of the fair values of acquired assets, including goodwill, and assumed liabilities, with only limited exceptions, even if the acquirer has not acquired 100 percent of its target. As a consequence, the prior step acquisition model was eliminated. Additionally, the standard changed prior practice, in part, as follows: (i) contingent consideration arrangements are fair valued at the acquisition date and included on that basis in the purchase price consideration; (ii) transaction costs are expensed as incurred, rather than capitalized as part of the purchase price; (iii) pre-acquisition contingencies, such as those relating to legal matters, are generally accounted for in purchase accounting at fair value; (iv) in order to accrue for a restructuring plan in purchase accounting, the requirements for accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities have to be met at the acquisition date; and (v) changes to valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits generally are recognized as adjustments to income tax expense rather than goodwill. We adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2009 and such adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Fair Value Measurements  

In January 2010, the FASB issued updates to its fair value measurement standards that require entities to provide new disclosures and clarify existing disclosures relating to fair value measurements. The new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in Level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. We do not currently have fair value measurements within the Level 3 category and therefore the adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the standard for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The required fair value disclosures are included in Note 7, “Fair Value Measurements.”  

Changes in the Consolidation Model for Variable Interest Entities  

In June 2009, the FASB issued an update that amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities (“VIE”) and changes how a reporting entity evaluates whether an entity is considered the primary beneficiary of a VIE and is therefore required to consolidate such VIE and will also require assessments at each reporting period of which party within the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and will require a number of new disclosures. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition  

In October 2009, the FASB issued updates to its accounting standards pertaining to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements requiring entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue allocation and requires revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method and is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We have evaluated the impact of the revised accounting standard and do not believe it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk