PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $25.8 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.26 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2011. We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services. We have an Other segment, which includes credit-related activities, the lease financing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity investments in Wing Hang Bank Limited and ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead.  

For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview”, “Summary of financial results”, “Fee and other revenue – Foreign exchange and other trading revenue”, “Review of businesses” and “International operations” sections in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) section in the Annual Report and Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were formed as a bank holding company (“BHC”) and have our executive offices in New York, New York. With its predecessors, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity (the “merger”).  

Our two principal banks are:  

   •    The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, formerly named “The Bank of New York”, which houses our institutional businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and 

 Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.  

   •    BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named “Mellon Bank, N.A.”, which houses our Wealth Management business.  

Our U.S. bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.  

We have four U.S. trust companies. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois house trust products and services across the United States. Also concentrating on trust products and services are BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank, and BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company, a Delaware-chartered entity. Most of our asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.  

Information on international operations is presented in the “Net interest revenue”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – Loans by product”, and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – International loans” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Notes 6 and 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in “Risk Factors – Global Operations”, in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Primary Subsidiaries  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2011.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, BNY Mellon reported results using the discontinued operations method of accounting for 2010 and 2009. All information in this Form 10-K for 2010 and 2009, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted. 

4 BNY Mellon  

Supervision and Regulation  

BNY Mellon, including through its subsidiaries, engages in banking, investment advisory and other securities-related activities in the United States and 35 other countries. We are subject to extensive regulation worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally charged with:  

   •    protecting the interests of customers, including depositors in banking entities and investors in mutual funds and other pooled vehicles our subsidiaries may advise, and safeguarding the integrity of securities and other financial markets; and  

   •    promoting financial stability in the relevant country.  

They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our stockholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. For additional discussion of recent and proposed regulatory initiatives that may impact our business, see “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Regulatory Reforms  

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States and provides for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other things, BHCs like BNY Mellon that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will depend to a large extent on the manner in which rules adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented by the primary U.S. financial 

regulatory agencies – the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”), the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) – as well as potential changes in market practices and structures in response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial reforms in other jurisdictions. Among other things:  

   •    Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), to coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns.  

   •    Dodd-Frank directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including as indicated above BHCs like BNY Mellon with total consolidated assets of $50 billion (often referred to as “systemically important financial institutions”), and authorizes the Federal Reserve to establish such standards either on its own or upon the recommendations of the FSOC. Dodd-Frank mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. In Dec. 2011, the Federal Reserve issued for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing enhanced prudential standards responsive to these provisions for:  

   •    risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits;  

   •    stress testing of capital;  

   •    liquidity requirements;  

   •    overall risk management requirements; and  

   •    concentration/credit exposure limits.  

Comments on the proposed rules, which we refer to as the “Proposed SIFI Rules”, are due by March 31, 2012. The Proposed SIFI Rules address a wide, diverse array of regulatory areas, each of which is highly complex. In some cases they would implement financial regulatory requirements being proposed for the first time, and in others overlap with other regulatory reforms. The Proposed SIFI Rules also address Dodd-Frank’s early remediation requirements applicable to BHCs that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed remediation rules are modeled after the prompt corrective action regime, described below, but 

BNY Mellon 5  

 are designed to require action beginning in the earlier stages of a company’s financial distress by mandating action on the basis of arranged triggers, including capital and leverage, stress test results, liquidity, and risk management. We are analyzing the impact of the Proposed SIFI Rules on our businesses. However, the full impact will not be known until the rules, and other regulatory initiatives that overlap with the rules, are finalized and their combined impacts can be assessed.  

   •    Dodd-Frank requires the U.S. financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (defined as hedge funds and private equity funds), with implementation starting as early as July 2012. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” In October 2011 and January 2012, Federal regulators proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule that included an extensive request for comments on the proposal. The proposed rules are highly complex, and are subject to revisions based on the public comment process. Therefore, many aspects of their application will remain uncertain and the full impact on us will not be known until the rules are finalized. However, if adopted as proposed the rules could limit our ability to provide seed capital to launch new hedge funds, private equity funds and other designated “similar funds” (“covered funds”) or our ability to engage in certain “covered transactions” under Federal Reserve Act’s Section 23A and 23B with covered funds for which BNY Mellon acts as both sponsor/manager and custodian. This latter provision may also affect BNY Mellon’s ability to perform certain traditional custodial operational activities for these covered funds.  

   •    Dodd-Frank requires various U.S. financial regulatory agencies to implement comprehensive rules governing the supervision, structure, trading and regulation of swap and over-the-counter derivative markets and participants. Dodd-Frank requires a large number of rulemakings in this area, many of which are not yet final. Once these rules are finalized, they could affect the way various BNY Mellon subsidiaries operate, and changes to the markets and participants will impact business models and profitability of certain BNY Mellon subsidiaries.  

In addition to the foregoing matters, the Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating a resolution authority, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on BNY Mellon or across the industry. In addition to the discussion in this section, see “Risk Factors – Recent legislative and regulatory actions may have an adverse effect on our operations” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. For additional discussion of proposed regulations that may impact our business, see the “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Since the Fall of 2008, regulators, market participants and money market fund sponsors have focused on the risks that money market funds may pose to financial stability, particularly to market liquidity in short-term investments, and on what possible consequences significant changes in the operations of such funds may have on the availability of short-term funding to government and financial and commercial borrowers. Although amendments were effected in 2010 to rules governing money market funds designed to enhance their resilience to the possibility of “breaking the buck”, additional proposals continue to be discussed. These include capital support or reserves, limitations on redemptions or a requirement that money market funds price their shares at net asset value. It is premature to predict the outcome of these discussions and proposals, but regulatory changes to the money market fund industry could cause significant business disruptions to, and could materially impact the operations and profitability of, this industry and BNY Mellon, which both manages and provides services for these funds.  

Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon  

BNY Mellon is regulated as a BHC and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and by the Dodd-Frank Act (the “BHC Act”). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve. In general, the BHC Act limits the business of BHCs that are FHCs to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal 

6 BNY Mellon  

 Reserve has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.  

Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including:  

   •    our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing basis as “well capitalized” and “well managed” as described under “Prompt Corrective Action” below; and  

   •    BNY Mellon qualifying on an ongoing basis as “well capitalized” and “well managed” under applicable Federal Reserve regulations.  

An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities, or make acquisitions, that are not generally permissible for BHCs without FHC status or to continue such activities. For additional discussion of our well capitalized status, see “Capital” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

The Bank of New York Mellon, which is BNY Mellon’s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, a member of the Federal Reserve System and subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve and the New York State Department of Financial Services. BNY Mellon’s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, are subject to primary regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC.  

We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC-registered 

broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), a securities industry self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon’s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by supervisory agencies in the countries in which they conduct business. Certain of BNY Mellon’s public finance and advisory activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of BNY Mellon’s subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation. BNY Mellon also has a subsidiary that clears futures and derivatives trades on behalf of institutional clients and is registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and is a member of the National Futures Association.  

In July 2011, our depository institutions were notified that they will be supervised by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) for certain consumer protection purposes. The CFPB will focus on:  

   •    risks to consumers and compliance with the Federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution;  

   •    the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets; and  

   •    depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services; depository institutions with a more specialized focus; and non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services.  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and as such are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business if a regulated entity fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “‘40 Act”), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private investment  

companies which are not registered under the ‘40 Act.The shares of most investment 

BNY Mellon 7  

companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the United States and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification. New SEC regulations will require additional data gathering and reporting to the SEC about the operations and investment activities of private funds in order to provide the FSOC with additional market data to monitor the potential for systemic risk in the marketplace. Like most regulations, they will increase the compliance burdens and costs for the businesses that manage these funds.  

Certain of our investment management, trust and custody operations provide services to qualified retirement plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), which is under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”). Recently, the DOL proposed a number of new regulations that are designed to provide greater transparency to participants and beneficiaries of retirement plans and expand the definition of who is a “fiduciary” to these regulated plans. Being an ERISA fiduciary imposes certain statutory duties, liabilities, disclosure obligations, and restrictions related to the services being performed and fees being paid. Expansion of the definition of a fiduciary could require certain BNY Mellon businesses to modify their service model to conform to the regulations governing a fiduciary’s conduct, which would likely impact the costs and profitability of such businesses.  

Certain of our financial services operations in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). The FSA has broad supervisory and disciplinary powers. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA 2000”) and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. The FSA imposes capital requirements on the entities it regulates. The FSA regulates The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited, our U.K.-chartered bank, as well as the U.K. branches of The Bank of New York Mellon and The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV. In addition, the FSA regulates our trust and depositary and certain of our corporate trust 

businesses. Certain of BNY Mellon’s U.K. incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the United Kingdom pursuant to the FSMA 2000. Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the FSA. Certain U.K. investment funds, including BNY Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K.-regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the United Kingdom.  

Our investment management business is subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and our management of client funds. The U.K. and European regulatory framework is changing. The U.K. government has announced that it intends to abolish the FSA and to establish three new regulatory bodies, the Financial Policy Committee, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority in its place. In addition, there are various new European Directives including a significant revision to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive as well as the new Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive both of which will impact our operations.  

The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate and, in the case of banking subsidiaries, may be subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of Dec. 31, 2011, each of BNY Mellon’s non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.  

In connection with our role as a clearing bank for the tri-party repurchase transaction market, or tri-party repo market, we work with dealers who use repos (i.e., repurchase transactions) to finance their securities by selling them to counterparties and agreeing to buy them back at a later date. In tri-party repos, a clearing bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the intermediary between a dealer and its counterparty in settling the transaction and providing mark-to-market and other services. As a result of the recent financial crisis, regulatory agencies worldwide have begun to re-examine systemic risks to various financial markets. One of the markets that regulatory agencies are reviewing, 

8 BNY Mellon  

 and in which we participate as a clearing bank, is the tri-party repo market. From 2009 until recently, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sponsored a Task Force on Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform to examine the risks in the tri-party repo market and to decide what changes should be implemented so that such risks may be mitigated or avoided in future financial crises. The Task Force issued recommendations regarding the tri-party repo market. BNY Mellon is working to implement the Task Force’s recommendations on its tri-party repo business activities. Since May 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has released monthly reports on the tri-party repo market, including information on aggregate volumes of collateral used in all tri-party repo transactions by asset class, concentrations, and margin levels, which is available at http://www.newyorkfed.org/tripartyrepo/margin_data.html.  

Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review  

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve published a final rule requiring BHCs (including BNY Mellon) with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital plans to their respective Federal Reserve Bank. The capital analysis and review process provided for in the rule is known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or “CCAR”. The capital plans are required to be submitted on an annual basis. Such BHCs will also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor the companies’ progress against their annual capital plans. The comprehensive capital plans, which are prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, include a view of capital adequacy under four scenarios – a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario provided by the Federal Reserve, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and a stress scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. Covered BHCs, including BNY Mellon, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. The rules provide that the Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The rules also require, among other 

 things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, BNY Mellon also provides the Federal Reserve with projections covering the time period it will take us to fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including the 7% Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% Tier 1 capital and 3% leverage ratios as well as granular components of those elements, as described further below under “Capital Requirements – Basel III”. BNY Mellon’s most recent capital plan was filed with the Federal Reserve on Jan. 9, 2012.  

The purpose of the Federal Reserve’s capital plan review is to ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each BHC’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  

The Proposed SIFI Rules, discussed earlier in this section under “Regulatory Reforms”, would also include stress testing requirements that, among other things, stress test under a severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. It also would require a semi-annual mid-year stress analysis.  

Payment of Dividends and Stock Repurchases  

Dividend payments by BNY Mellon to its stockholders and stock repurchases by BNY Mellon are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. As described above in this section under “Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review”, under the CCAR rule dividends and stock repurchases generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.  

BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and 

BNY Mellon 9  

 regulations limit the amount of dividends that may  

be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory consent. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution’s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.  

In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared and paid by the entity in any calendar year exceeds the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity’s “undivided profits” (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). The ability of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations.  

For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the “Liquidity and dividends” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, BNY Mellon’s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders  

Transactions between BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and BNY Mellon and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the other, are regulated by the Federal Reserve. These regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit from the U.S. bank subsidiaries) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm’s-length basis. These regulations generally do not apply to transactions between a U.S. bank subsidiary and its subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit by a BNY Mellon bank subsidiary to BNY Mellon or to a BNY Mellon non-bank subsidiary must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus.  

The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example, commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. Commencing in July 2012, Dodd-Frank also expands the definition of a “covered transaction” to include derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions with a non-bank affiliate under which a bank (or its subsidiary) has credit exposure (with the term “credit exposure” to be defined by the Federal Reserve under its existing rulemaking authority). Collateral requirements will apply to such transactions as well as to certain repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.  

Deposit Insurance  

Our U.S. banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The applicable limit for FDIC insurance for most types of accounts is $250,000 for each right and capacity of the depositor. For noninterest-bearing transaction accounts there is temporary unlimited coverage through December 31, 2012. All funds held in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured, without limit, and this coverage is separate from, and in addition to, the coverage provided to depositors for other accounts at The Bank of New 

10 BNY Mellon  

 York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency.  

The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments were determined based on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it held. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to amend its assessment regulation so that assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period instead of the amount of insured deposits an institution holds. The FDIC implemented the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions by establishing separate assessment systems for small institutions, generally those with assets less than $10 billion, and for large institutions, those generally having $10 billion in assets or more. Both assessment systems use the new method for calculating the assessment base. For smaller institutions, assessments are determined based on the risk category of an institution and the assessment base. For larger institutions, such as The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., assessments are determined based on CAMELS ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15 percent in order to reach a minimum of 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. The FDIC issued a final rule in December 2011 setting the increased reserve ratio at 2 percent. This increase may result in increased costs for our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminates the ceiling (1.5 percent of insured deposits) on the size of the DIF and makes the payment of dividends from the DIF by the FDIC discretionary. 

Source of Strength and Liability of Affiliates  

Federal Reserve policy historically has required BHCs to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the event of a BHC’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, in certain circumstances BNY Mellon’s insured depository institutions could be assessed for losses incurred by another BNY Mellon insured depository institution.  

In the event of impairment of the capital stock of one of BNY Mellon’s national banks or The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, as the banks’ stockholder, could be required to pay such deficiency.  

Resolution Planning  

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and FDIC have jointly issued a final rule that requires certain organizations, including BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. BNY Mellon’s resolution plan must, among other things, ensure that our depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from our other subsidiaries. The final rule sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the range of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company’s organizational structure, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.  

In addition, the FDIC has issued a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as The Bank of New York Mellon, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The rule requires these insured institutions 

BNY Mellon 11  

 to submit a resolution plan that will enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the bank in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution’s failure, maximizes the net-present-value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution’s creditors. The final rule also sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the strategies for achieving the least costly resolution, and analyses of the financial company’s organization, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.  

The two resolution plan rules are complementary and we have commenced work on our initial resolution plans. We expect that our initial plans will be required to be submitted to the regulators by early in the fourth quarter of 2012.  

Capital Requirements  

As a BHC, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. These requirements are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.  

The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to BHCs are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks,” including BNY Mellon, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III”. Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully 

 phased-in, will require BHCs and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additional information on the calculation of our Tier 1 capital, Total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in “Capital” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, and additional information on our capital requirements is set forth in “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.  

Basel I  

Under the existing Basel I-based regulations, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid over-reliance on non-common equity elements. Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The required minimum ratio of “Total capital” (the sum of “Tier 1” and “Tier 2” capital) to risk-adjusted assets is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). Even without further rulemaking, the Federal Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks, or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, BHCs experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Other factors identified by the risk-based capital requirements as important in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy include concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, including the management of those risks. At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon’s Basel I Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and Total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 15.0% and 17.0%, respectively. 

12 BNY Mellon  

In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations’ own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators. In January 2011, certain of the federal banking agencies published proposed amendments to their market risk rules, known as “Basel II.5”, intended to conform the federal banking agencies’ market risk rules more closely to the Basel Committee’s international standards. In December 2011, in response to a Dodd-Frank requirement that the federal banking agencies remove references to credit ratings in their rules, the federal banking agencies published further proposed amendments to the market risk rules to implement that requirement. Those changes will result in increased capital requirements for market risk.  

Basel II  

The federal banking agencies are mandating the adoption of Basel II for “core” banks having either total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or foreign exposures of $10 billion or more, such as BNY Mellon and its depository institution subsidiaries. The U.S. Basel II-based rules for “core” banks require those banks to apply Basel II’s Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“A-IRB”) approach for credit risk and Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) for operational risk.  

The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2009 was the first year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old regulations and new regulations. The U.S. Basel II rules originally provided that “core” banks would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of the three transitional floor periods. In the United States, we began the parallel run of calculations under both the old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Our capital models are currently with the Federal Reserve for their approval. In response to a Dodd-Frank requirement, the federal banking agencies have amended their capital rules to 

 provide that minimum capital as required under the Basel I-based rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the U.S. Basel II rules. Accordingly, the transition for “core” banks to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements is being eliminated.  

Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach for our banks organized in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process. We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices.  

Basel III  

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:  

   •    specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of Tier 1 common equity and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, defines Tier 1 common equity narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to Tier 1 common equity and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;  

   •    when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% Tier 1 common equity ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); 

BNY Mellon 13  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average balance sheet exposures plus certain average off-balance sheet exposures; and  

   •    under some circumstances, a “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a Tier 1 common equity add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).  

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.  

On July 19, 2011, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document setting forth proposals to apply a new Tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), and on Nov. 4, 2011 the Basel committee issued final provisions substantially unchanged from the proposals. In its Proposed SIFI Rules (discussed in this section under “Regulatory Reforms”), the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel Committee’s proposal. G-SIBs subject to the surcharge would be identified by application of a quantitative “indicator-based approach” comprised of five broad categories of indicators – cross-jurisdictional activity, size, interconnectedness, substitutability and complexity. Each G-SIB would initially be assigned to one of four “buckets”, with the capital surcharges for those buckets ranging from 1% to 2.5%. There would be an additional 3.5% bucket that would initially be empty but that could be applied to a G-SIB that increases materially its global systemic importance in the future, for example by increasing total assets. The G-SIB equity surcharge provisions, like the rest of Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act provisions referenced above, are subject to interpretation and implementation by U.S. regulatory authorities. In a companion release on Nov. 4, 2011 addressing progress on a variety of 

financial regulatory reforms relating to global systemically important financial institutions, the Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions that included BNY Mellon and indicated that it used the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list.  

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will commence Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:  

   •    3.5% Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets;  

   •    4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and  

   •    8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.  

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to Tier 1 common equity. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from Tier 1 common equity to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of Tier 1 common equity or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of Tier 1 common equity.  

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to Tier 1 common equity will begin on Jan. 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on Jan. 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent Jan. 1, until it reaches 2.5% on Jan. 1, 2019).  

The timing for the U.S. banking agencies’ publication of proposed rules to implement the Basel III capital framework and the implementation schedule is uncertain. The release accompanying the Proposed SIFI Rules appears to indicate that rules implementing Basel III will be published for comment during the first quarter of 2012. The rules ultimately adopted and made applicable to us may be different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010.  

Impact on BNY Mellon  

Because the U.S. banking agencies’ rules implementing Basel III may differ from the Basel III final framework, we cannot be certain of the impact the new regulations will have on our capital ratios. At Dec. 31, 2011, our Basel III ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets was 7.1%.  

14 BNY Mellon  

Leverage Requirement  

Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, even though a leverage requirement has not been an international standard in the past, the federal banking agencies’ capital regulations do require BHCs and banks to comply with a minimum leverage ratio requirement (Basel III will impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The Federal Reserve’s existing leverage ratio requirement for BHCs is that the BHC maintains a ratio of Tier 1 capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The rules require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for BHCs that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other BHCs are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Also, the rules indicate that the Federal Reserve will consider a “tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles). At Dec. 31, 2011, our leverage ratio was 5.2% and the leverage ratio of The Bank of New York Mellon was 5.3%.  

Liquidity Ratios under Basel III  

Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and BHC liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the United States and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and BHCs to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of 

banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the LCR will be subject to an observation period continuing through mid-2013 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard on Jan. 1, 2015. Similarly, it contemplates that the NSFR will be subject to an observation period through mid-2016 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard by Jan. 1, 2018.  

As discussed above in this section under “Regulatory Reforms”, the Proposed SIFI Rules address liquidity requirements for BHCs, including BNY Mellon, with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. In the release accompanying those rules, the Federal Reserve states a general intention to incorporate the Basel III liquidity framework for the BHCs covered by the Proposed SIFI Rules or a “subset” of those BHCs. Although the Proposed SIFI Rules do not include prescriptive ratios like the LCR and NSFR, they do include detailed liquidity-related requirements, including requirements for cash flow projections, liquidity stress testing (including, at a minimum, over time horizons that include an overnight time horizon, a 30-day time horizon, a 90-day time horizon and a one-year time horizon), and a requirement that covered BHCs maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and the projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios.  

Prompt Corrective Action  

The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a 

BNY Mellon 15  

 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  

At Dec. 31, 2011, all of our bank subsidiaries were “well capitalized” based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank’s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects.  

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company  

If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:  

   •    to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;  

   •    to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or  

   •    to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.  

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., the debt holders 

 would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank.  

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including BHCs and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed non-bank subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDI Act. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity.  

The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of Dodd-Frank, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has completed its initial phase of rulemaking under the orderly liquidation authority, but additional rules are under consideration. These rules may affect the manner in which the new authority is applied, particularly with respect to broker-dealer and futures commission merchant subsidiaries of BHCs. 

16 BNY Mellon  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.  

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act  

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, identifying new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon’s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.  

Privacy  

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. 

Acquisitions  

Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or BHCs. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for the direct or indirect acquisition by a BHC of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or BHC. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant’s record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 which requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities (including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies) and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to informal notice and approval by the Federal Reserve or other regulatory authorities.  

Competition  

BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Management business competes with asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. These firms and companies may be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and foreign banks that offer institutional trust, custody products and cash management products, as well as a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer services for institutional and retail customers. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates, lending limits and customer convenience.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of this Form 10-K and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects. 

BNY Mellon 17  

In recent years there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, “Risk Factors – Competition – We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability” below, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 48,700 employees.  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies  

The SEC’s disclosure rules relating to the MD&A require that the following statistical disclosures specified in the Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry Guide 3 (together, “Guide 3”) be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by BHCs.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections in the MD&A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. 

 II. Investment Portfolio  

 A. Book Value of Investments;  

 B. Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,  

 C. Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders’ Equity  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Investment securities” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 III. Loan Portfolio  

 A. Types of Loans and  

 B. Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

C. Risk Elements and  

D. Other Interest-bearing Assets  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” and “– Nonperforming assets” and “International operations – Cross-border risk”, “– Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Critical accounting estimates – Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” 

18 BNY Mellon  

 section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the “Risk management – Credit risk” and “Critical accounting estimates” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Deposits” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial summary” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

VII. Short-Term Borrowings  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Short-term borrowings” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

Replacement Capital Covenant  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities, due 2066 (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “Trust”) and the issuance by the Trust of £200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust’s 6.369% trust preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). Under this section entitled “Replacement Capital Covenant”, we refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the 

Preferred Securities collectively as the “Securities”. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under the RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless:  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to BHCs; and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

   •    BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered 

BNY Mellon 19  

 Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.  

The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K filed on Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “2007 RCC”) in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or “Junior Notes”, and a 1/100th interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust is obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial is obligated to sell, one share of Mellon Financial’s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the “Preferred Stock”). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under the 2007 RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt”, that on or before the “Stock Purchase Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be 

June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before the “Termination Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022), with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the “2007 Securities”):  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless:  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to BHCs; and  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC. 

20 BNY Mellon  

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS