Item 1A. Risk Factors

You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.

Risks Relating to Government Contracting

Contracts with the U.S. government and its prime contractors account for substantially all of our revenue and earnings. If our relationships with the U.S. government are harmed, our future revenue and operating results would decline.

We generated approximately 94% and 91% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and April 1, 2016, respectively, from sales to the U.S. government either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors. For the same periods, we generated approximately 45% and 51%, respectively, of our total revenues from such contracts with the DoD (including all branches of the U.S. military) and Intelligence community and approximately 55% and 40%, respectively, of our total revenues from such contracts with civilian agencies. We expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from work performed under U.S. government contracts.

Accordingly, events that compromise our relationship with the U.S. government could cause our revenue to decline. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationship with the U.S. government are our performance on contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 

U.S. government spending and mission priorities could change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenue and limits our growth prospects.

Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts with the U.S. government, we expect that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in U.S. government contract programs. Changes in U.S. government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support, or a change in U.S. government contracting policies could cause U.S. government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise contract options. Consequently, we closely monitor federal budget activities and legislative and contracting trends and activities, and we continue to take these factors into consideration when examining our business strategies.

We have experienced reduced funding for some of the programs we support in recent years, and may see further reductions in the future. The U.S. government 2015 Bipartisan Budget Agreement set funding levels for GFY 2017. However, there is the potential for a government shut down by Congress after the expiration of the current continuing resolution at the end of the GFY 2017 on September 30, 2017. In addition, the U.S. government continues to face significant fiscal and economic challenges such as financial deficits and the debt ceiling limit, 

11

which could result in reduced funding for the programs that we service. In addition, the short-term funding stability afforded by the GFY 2015 Bipartisan Budget Agreement may not extend beyond GFY 2017. As a result, funding for the programs that we support in GFY 2018 and beyond remain uncertain, and any significant reduction in the budget for such programs could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition.

Our competitors often protest major contracts that we win with the U.S. government, which may delay our initiation of work and receipt of revenues under these contracts or result in the loss of some contracts and task orders altogether.

 The U.S. government increasingly subjects its contracts to a competitive bidding process. This process has resulted in greater competition, increased pricing pressure and a rise in the number of protests from unsuccessful bidders. It can take many months to resolve a protest of a contract awarded to us, which may result in a delay in the startup of the work and, accordingly, our ability to receive and recognize revenue from the contract. Bid protests may also result in our loss of some contracts or task orders altogether. These delays and lost contracts may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations.

The U.S. government may elect not to extend their contracts with us for option years, may terminate these contracts at any time for convenience, and may terminate these contracts due to our default. Our failure to replace these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.

Our U.S. government contracts typically span one or more base years and one or more years for which the agency has an option whether to extend the contract. The option periods typically cover more than half of a contract’s potential duration. These contracts typically also permit the agency to terminate all or a portion of a contract or task order for its convenience. When the government terminates a contract for convenience, we lose all of the expected revenue associated with the terminated work and we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. In the last five years, our government customers have terminated a contract or task order for convenience eight times, resulting in an average loss of less than 1% per year of our total revenue during that period. 

Separately, if the government terminates a contract due to our default, we may be unable to recover our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under certain of our contracts. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, a performance problem that impacts our performance of a program or contract could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.

Our markets are highly competitive, and our financial performance depends on our ability to compete, win new business and win recompetes of our current contracts. If we do not win recompetes, and those lost contracts are not replaced, our operating results may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. During fiscal year 2017 we were involved on approximately 850 contracts, with no single contract accounting for more than 10% of our total net sales in fiscal year 2017. However, our business is concentrated with several contracts that comprise a significant percentage of our revenues. For fiscal years 2017 and 2016, our top 12 contracts accounted for approximately 37% of our revenues in each year. Certain of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than we are. In addition, pursuant to amendments to the separation agreements that we recently signed with CSC, DXC Technology (CSC’s parent company) is now able to compete with us in certain areas of the U.S. federal, state and local government fields. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, we may lose competitive bids, including recompetes, causing our market share, and thus our revenue, to decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend toward consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies that are better able to compete against us. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor to us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it could divert sales from us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and 

12

profitability. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

U.S. government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us.

U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to:

•cancel multi-year contracts and any related orders if the underlying funds for any subsequent year become unavailable;

•claim rights in systems and software that we develop;

•suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. government;

•impose fines and penalties on us, and subject us to criminal prosecution;

•control or prohibit the export of our data and technology; and

•impose special handling and control requirements for controlled unclassified information.

In addition, some of our U.S. government contracts contain Organizational Conflict of Interest (“OCI”) clauses that limit our ability to compete for or perform contracts if we engage in activities that may: make us unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the U.S. government; impair our objectivity in performing contract work; or provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. For example, when we work on the design of a particular system, we may be precluded from competing for the contract to develop and install that system or supporting a prime contractor in doing so. We have divested lines of business in the past to avoid or mitigate OCIs and may do so again in the future. We continue to evaluate the OCI provisions in our contracts to determine the potential effects of these clauses on future business opportunities. An OCI clause that precludes our participation in or performance of a program or contract, combined with our inability to mitigate or avoid OCI related issues, could result in a lost business opportunity, which could, in turn, cause our operating results and financial condition to be adversely effected.

Our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected based on the mix of our contracts and by our failure to accurately estimate or manage costs, time and resources for our contracts. 

We generate revenues with our U.S. government customers under one of the following types of contracts: time-and-materials contracts, cost reimbursement contracts, and fixed-price (including fixed price-level-of-effort and firm fixed-price) contracts. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract.

Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain allowable expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because our costs of performance may exceed these negotiated hourly rates.

Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs up to a ceiling and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our actual costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. In particular, there is increasing focus by the U.S. government, including rule changes, on the extent to which government contractors, including us, are able to receive reimbursement for employee compensation. In addition, there is an increased risk of compensation being deemed unallowable or payments being withheld as a result of U.S. government audit, review or investigation.

Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a pre-determined price. Compared to time-and-materials and cost-reimbursable contracts, fixed-price contracts generally involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of any cost overruns. The U.S. government has generally indicated that it intends to increase its use of fixed-price contract procurements. Because we assume the risk for cost overruns and contingent losses on fixed-price contracts, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our risk of suffering losses.

13

In each case, our profits could be adversely affected if our cost estimates are not accurate or are not managed properly, including any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays.

We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations, some of which are complex, and our failure to comply could result in fines or civil or criminal penalties, or suspension or debarment, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

As a U.S. government contractor, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts, and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. government agencies. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include:

•the FAR and agency supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts; 

•the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; 

•the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; 

•the False Claims Act, which provides for substantial penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. government for payment or approval; and 

•the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under U.S. government contracts.

As a contractor supporting national security customers, we are also subject to regulatory compliance requirements under the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and other federal regulations requiring that our networks and IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171. Failure to comply with the security control requirements could also result in our ineligibility to bid for certain agency contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

In addition, the U.S. government adopts new laws, rules, and regulations from time to time that could have a material impact on our results of operations. For a discussion of these and other laws and regulations that affect us, see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.”

Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts, and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. If the U.S. government were to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings against us or if we were indicted for or convicted of illegal activities relating to our U.S. government contracts following an audit, review, or investigation, we may lose our ability to be awarded contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts for a period of time which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts.

More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, profitability, growth prospects and impair our ability to recruit and retain employees.

The U.S. government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time.

Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest, deterrence of fraud, and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed-price 

14

contracts, multiple award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects.

We may fail to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances which may adversely affect our ability to perform on certain contracts. 

Many U.S. government programs require contractor employees and facilities to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we are not able to obtain and maintain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts, as well as lose existing contracts, which may adversely affect our operating results and inhibit the execution of our growth strategy. 

In addition, the competition for qualified personnel who possess security clearances is very strong in certain public sector markets. Accordingly, if we are unable to hire sufficient qualified and cleared personnel to meet contractual commitments, a contract could be terminated for non-performance. Under either circumstance, such termination, depending on the contract value, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated and combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by our government customers which, if resolved unfavorably, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects. 

U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), the Defense Contract Management Agency (“DCMA”) and others, routinely audit or review our performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards, and the adequacy of our compliance with government standards with respect to our business systems. Our state and local government contracts are subject to audits and reviews by state and local government agencies, including state comptrollers and inspector generals, and, where federal funds are used by a state to fund all or part of a contract we perform, the state and CSRA may be subject to audit by a U.S. government agency or the Government Accountability Office.

The scope and rigor of U.S. government agency audits have increased in recent years, resulting in a greater likelihood that an audit or review may result in an adverse outcome. We have been subject to unfavorable findings and recommendations from DCAA from time to time, many of which we have disputed and with respect to some of which we have negotiated settlements with the DCAA. We expect that the DCAA will continue to rigorously audit us and there will be disputed findings.

Adverse findings from these audits and reviews can result in decreased billing rates to our U.S. government customers, adjustments to contract costs, mandatory customer refunds, a loss of our ability to bid on new contracts, and adverse effects on our competitive position in the bidding process. In addition, when we act as a prime contractor, we may incur additional costs or our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts may be affected if a subcontractor’s failure to comply with these regulations affects our performance under a prime contract.

DCAA’s indirect cost audits and its audits of incurred cost submissions remain uncompleted for several fiscal years, and, as a consequence we have not been able to negotiate final indirect rates for affected contracts for periods since fiscal 2003 for contracts with major civil agencies, since fiscal 2007 for contracts with major defense agencies, and since 2008 for contracts with Intelligence agencies. We have recorded contract revenues for years for which we do not have final indirect rates based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review. If the audits result in significant adjustments to the revenues that we have recorded based on our estimates, it would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

If our customers request out-of-scope work, we may not be able to collect our receivables, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability.

We may perform work for the U.S. government and state governments, with respect to which we must file requests for equitable adjustment or claims with the proper agency to seek recovery in whole or in part, for out-of-

15

scope work directed or caused by the government customer in support of its critical missions. While we may resort to other methods to pursue our claims or collect our receivables, these methods are expensive and time consuming, and successful collection is not guaranteed. Failure to collect our receivables or prevail on our claims would have an adverse effect on our profitability.

Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers, adversely affect our ability to win new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation.

Misconduct may include fraud or other improper activities, such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, rules regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, international trade controls (particularly the International Traffic in Arms Regulations), lobbying or similar activities and any other applicable laws or regulations. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls intended to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions cannot prevent all types of misconduct all of the time. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business and our future results. 

Risks Relating to Our Operations

Internal system or service failures, including as a result of cyber or other security threats, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to provide our services to our customers effectively, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We create, deploy, and maintain IT and engineering systems and provide services that are often critical to our customers’ missions, some of which involve sensitive information and may be conducted in war zones or other hazardous environments. These systems and services may fail due to our own failures, the failures of third-party service providers, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and exposure to cyber and other security threats such as computer malware, attacks by computer hackers and physical break-ins. There has been an increase in the frequency and sophistication of the cyber and security threats we face. Moreover, because we hold classified, controlled unclassified, and other sensitive information, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists. 

Although threat incidents that we have identified to date have not resulted in a material adverse effect on us or our business operations, one or more successful attacks on our network or other systems or service failures could lead to the loss of customer or proprietary data, service interruptions or delays in our customers’ businesses, which would damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our systems, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations. In addition, if our employees inadvertently fail to adhere to appropriate information security protocols, our protocols are inadequate, or our employees intentionally avoid these protocols, our customers’ or employees’ sensitive information may be released. 

If we were to experience a successful cyberattack, then we could suffer financial and/or reputational harm to our business, including claims for damages and loss of the ability to perform classified work. In addition to any costs resulting from contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may generate increased costs or loss of revenue if our customers choose to postpone or cancel previously scheduled work or decide not to renew any of our existing contracts.

Certain of these costs may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Additionally, some cyber technologies and techniques that we utilize or develop may raise potential liabilities related to legal compliance, intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified. Further, we may not be able to obtain and maintain insurance coverage on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims and may not cover certain incidents.

16

We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally.

We conduct foreign business operations in support of our U.S. government and other governmental customers. These operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including:

•Changes in or interpretations of laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services;

•Political instability in certain foreign countries;

•Fluctuations in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar;

•Imposition of inconsistent or contradictory laws or regulations; 

•Reliance on the U.S. or other governments to authorize us to export products, technology and services; 

•Conducting business in places where laws, business practices, and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; and 

•Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures.

In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. If we were to fail to comply with the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws, applicable import-export control regulations, or other applicable rules and regulations, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for our company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, suspension or debarment, and the possible loss of export or import privileges, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees, including our senior management team and skilled IT personnel, could adversely affect our business. 

We believe that the future success of our business and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management and the continued development of new members of senior management. We rely on our senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with our clients are important to our business and our ability to identify new business opportunities.

Our success also depends on our ability to recruit and retain the technically-skilled personnel we need to serve our customers effectively. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Accordingly, our employees are our most valuable resource. Competition for skilled personnel in the IT services industry is intense, and technology service companies often experience high attrition among their skilled employees. There is a shortage of people capable of filling these positions, particularly those with government security clearances, and they are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Moreover, recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain technical personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to satisfy our customers’ needs efficiently, limit our ability to win new business and cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

We may be subject to liability and could be required to change our business practices if we are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of others, including such infringement in the course of providing services to our customers. In addition, our business may suffer if we are unable to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends. 

The solutions we provide to our customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, which could result in claims for damages and equitable relief against us or our customers. Under the FAR, our U.S. government customers can require, and our other customer agreements may require, us to indemnify these customers for infringement. The expense and time of defending against these claims, whether or not meritorious, may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability and divert management’s attention from our business. A determination that we have infringed the intellectual property of others could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on terms that are unfavorable to us, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. Such an injunction could require us to change our business practices and limit our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, the publicity we may receive as a result of infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new business.

17

In addition, we maintain a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and proprietary rights, as well as contractual arrangements, including licenses, to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. See “Part II—Item 8—Note 2—Corporate Allocations and Transition Agreements.” There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect and maintain our intellectual property will be adequate, or that third parties will not infringe, misappropriate or violate our intellectual property. If our efforts to protect intellectual property are not adequate, the value of our goods and services may be harmed, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any impairment of our intellectual property, including due to changes in U.S. and worldwide intellectual property laws or the absence of effective legal protections or enforcement measures, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. 

As of March 31, 2017, the total backlog of CSRA was $15.2 billion, which included $2.4 billion in funded backlog. We will likely not realize the full amount of our backlog as revenue, particularly unfunded backlog and future services where the customer has an option to decline our continued services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period. Our receipt, and the timing and amount, of revenue under contracts included in our backlog, are subject to various contingencies, including congressional appropriations, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, delays in the completion of the U.S. government’s budgeting process and the use of continuing resolutions could adversely affect our ability to recognize revenue timely under our contracts included in our backlog. Furthermore, the actual receipt of revenue from contracts included in backlog may never occur or may be delayed because: 

•a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled; a contract’s funding or scope could be reduced, modified, delayed, or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds or as a result of cost cutting initiatives and other efforts to reduce U.S. government spending and/or the automatic federal defense spending cuts required by sequestration; 

•in the case of funded backlog, the period of performance for the contract has expired; 

•in the case of unfunded backlog, funding may not be available; or, in the case of priced options, our clients may not exercise their options; or

•we may be unable to fulfill our obligations due to a lack of qualified personnel.

Adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes could result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief and damage our reputation.

As noted in “Part I—Item 3—Legal Proceedings” and “Part II—Item 8, Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements of CSRA, we are currently party to a number of disputes. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. The litigation and other claims described under “Part II—Item 8, Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies” are subject to future developments and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.

The integration of business acquisitions, partnerships, or divestitures may present significant challenges.

As part of our strategy, we may pursue business acquisitions and partnerships. These transactions involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including:

• difficulty integrating the businesses, operations, employees, and business cultures;

• creation of OCIs that limit our ability to compete for or perform under certain contracts;

• the challenge of achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits;

• the potential loss of key employees and sales personnel of the respective businesses;

• integrating financial reporting and internal control systems;

• the challenge of creating uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and controlling the costs associated with these matters;

18

• the challenge and costs of integrating the IT, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems and processes of each company; 

• potential future impairments of goodwill associated with the acquired businesses; and

• in some cases, the potential for increased regulation.

In addition, we have yet to complete the final systems and process integration relating to our merger with SRA. We cannot assure you that CSRA will successfully and cost-effectively integrate any acquisitions. In addition, members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable time and attention to any acquisitions which could hurt our business.

Similarly, we could make divestitures which could involve inherent risks or uncertainties, including loss of past performance qualifications for future bid opportunities.

Our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions and partnerships may impact our ability to compete in the markets we serve.

We intend to explore potential strategic acquisitions that could allow us to expand our operations. However, we may be unable to identify attractive candidates or complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us. In addition, if we are unable to integrate successfully the operations we acquire and to leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth, our revenue and earnings could be adversely affected.

We have also entered into, and plan to seek additional opportunities to enter into, strategic partnerships with other industry participants as part of an effort to expand our business. However, we may be unable to identify attractive strategic partnership candidates or complete such partnerships on terms favorable to us. In addition, if we are unable to implement successfully our partnership strategies, our strategic partners do not fulfill their obligations, or these partnerships otherwise do not prove advantageous to our business, our investments in such partnerships and our anticipated business expansion could be adversely affected.

We rely on CSC and other third parties for information that we use for our external financial reporting.

Following the Spin-Off, we continue to rely on information we receive from CSC to make certain calculations that are important to our external financial reporting. For instance, we rely on CSC to supply us with the number of CSRA options held by CSC employees who had options to purchase both CSC shares and CSRA shares, which we use, among other things, in calculating our diluted earnings per share. We also rely on CSC for other information, including certain historical tax assets and liabilities. We have limited control over the quality, accuracy and timeliness of the information we receive from CSC. The failure by CSC to provide us with completely accurate information or to provide such information on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our financial information.

We also rely on the information received from unrelated third party service organizations that make certain calculations that are important to our external financial reporting. For example, we rely on unrelated third party service organizations to supply us with calculations and reports that support our accounting and reporting of share based payment plans, as well as our pension and other postretirement plans. We obtain various reports from these organizations that communicate information on their controls and systems that are used to generate this information. Those reports also include an opinion from a service auditor opining on the fairness of the service organization’s depiction of its control system at specified date, as well as the efficacy of the service organization’s controls and objectives throughout a specified period. While reliance on these reports is an important part of management’s internal control over financial reporting, we may not always have adequate, accurate, or timely information related to internal control failures occurring at these organizations, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company.

We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any adverse findings from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, result in significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies, and have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Annually, we review, 

19

document and test our internal control over financial reporting. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the attestation process by our independent registered public accounting firm, we may encounter problems or delays in implementing any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the New York Stock Exchange, regulatory investigations, civil or criminal sanctions and litigation, any of which would materially adversely affect our business. 

Our defined benefit pension plans are underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly. Pension costs are dependent on several economic assumptions that, if changed, may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly.

In connection with the Spin-Off, we assumed most obligations under substantially all of CSC’s material U.S. domestic defined benefit pension plans, including various supplemental executive retirement plans and substantial assets and liabilities in respect of pension obligations to current and former CSC employees who are not our current or former employees. These defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded based on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly in the event of a reduction in the plans’ funded status. The funded status of these plans could change as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets leading to inadequate investment returns, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in assumptions (including discount rate).

As a result, our future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. The impact of these plans on our GAAP earnings may fluctuate significantly from year to year. The amount of expense that we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change significantly from year to year because the calculations of these expenses are sensitive to changes in the key economic assumptions discussed above.

Significant increases in our required plan funding as a result of changes in the factors described above, including legislative or regulatory actions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, cash flow and stockholders’ equity.

We and our suppliers may need to raise additional capital, and we cannot be sure that such financing will be available. Moreover, a downgrade of our credit ratings may harm our ability to raise additional capital, increase our borrowing costs, and harm our competitiveness.

We fund our ongoing working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements through cash flows from operations and new sources of capital, including additional financing. Our ability to obtain future financing will depend, among other things, on our credit ratings and the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing.

Credit rating agencies determine our credit ratings based on our financial condition and results of operations and other factors that are beyond our control. These agencies’ determine our credit ratings based on their independent review, assessment and information sources. There can be no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded, withdrawn or suspended. A downgrade of any our credit ratings could result in higher borrowing costs, limited access to capital markets, and a decline in the market price for our common stock. They may also result in increased costs associated with procuring surety bonds in connection with certain of our contracts.

Volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain financing. In addition, the adoption of new statutes and regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws or new interpretations or the enforcement of existing laws and regulations applicable to the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient access to the capital markets on terms that we will we find acceptable.

20

Similarly, our suppliers or partners require access to short-term financing and other forms of capital in order to meet their payment and delivery obligations to us. If a disruption in the credit markets were to occur, it could also pose a risk to our business if certain government suppliers are unable to obtain financing to meet their obligations to us.

We have substantial indebtedness, and we have the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We have substantial indebtedness and we may increase our indebtedness in the future. As of March 31, 2017, our term loan and revolving line of credit debt was approximately $2.7 billion and a net pension liability of approximately $0.5 billion.

Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements and to carry out other aspects of our business;

•increase our cost of borrowing;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements and to carry out other aspects of our business;

•limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock;

•expose us to fluctuations in interest rates, to the extent our borrowings bear variable rates of interest and the risk is not hedged through one or more swap transactions;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and

•place us at a potential disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.

Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on and be subject to our future financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow funds in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments on our debt, to refinance our existing debt or to fund our other needs. If we were unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments on or refinance our debt or obtain new financing, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The terms of our existing debt agreements and market or business conditions may limit our ability to take some or all of these actions. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could be exacerbated.

The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants, which restrict our operational flexibility.

The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations on: our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, including covenants that place limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; the creation of liens; the payment of dividends; sales of assets; fundamental changes, including mergers and acquisitions; loans and investments; negative pledges; transactions with affiliates; restrictions affecting subsidiaries; modification to charter documents in a manner materially adverse to the lenders; changes in our fiscal year and limitations on conduct of business.

Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business and could cause us to become insolvent or enter bankruptcy proceedings.

21

SRA’s income tax returns are subject to audit in various jurisdictions and its fiscal year 2011 U.S. federal income tax returns are currently under audit.

SRA’s income tax returns are subject to review and audit in the United States and other jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. If any tax authority successfully challenges SRA’s tax positions, our effective tax rate on our earnings could increase substantially, and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected.

Periods for SRA’s fiscal years ended after July 1, 2010 generally remain subject to examination by federal and state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, tax years after 2010 may remain subject to examination by tax authorities. SRA’s consolidated U.S. federal income tax return for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 is currently under audit by the IRS. SRA has been notified that the IRS contests a significant deduction taken during that period, which SRA plans to defend vigorously. SRA has obtained insurance for certain taxes, interest, penalties and defense costs attributable to certain deductions taken by SRA that are contested by the IRS. Nonetheless, if the IRS were to challenge SRA’s prior tax positions and SRA is unsuccessful in defending them, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, or be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Risks Relating to Recent Transactions

We could have an indemnification obligation to CSC if the Distribution were determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. 

If, due to any of the representations being untrue or covenants being breached, it were determined that the Distribution did not qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, we could be required to indemnify CSC for the resulting taxes and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our financial condition.

In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to CSC, but not to stockholders, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, if we or our stockholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change by vote or value in the ownership of our stock during the period beginning two years before the date of the Distribution through two years after the date of the Distribution, unless it were established that such transactions and the Distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions giving effect to such a change in ownership. If the Distribution were taxable to CSC due to such a 50% or greater change in ownership of our stock, CSC would recognize a gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock held by it immediately before the Distribution, and we generally would be required to indemnify CSC for the tax on such gain and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our financial condition. See “Part II—Item 8, Note 2—Corporate Allocations and Transition Agreements” and Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 10-K.

We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. 

We agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations that address compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our stockholders may consider favorable. See “Part II—Item 8, Note 2—Corporate Allocations and Transition Agreements” and Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 10-K.

Our ability to expand our business beyond U.S. federal and certain state and local government customers may be constrained.

Our IPMA with CSC restricts our ability to use certain intellectual property, including intellectual property assigned to us pursuant to the IPMA, and to sell our services to customers other than our existing customer base (i.e., U.S. federal and certain state and local government customers) until the expiration of the initial five-year term of the Original IPMA or termination of the IPMA, subject to certain triggering events. In addition, under our Non-U.S. Agency Agreement, for a period after the Distribution and subject to certain exceptions: we have appointed CSC as our exclusive agent outside the United States with regard to certain non-U.S. customers; we have agreed not to sell to certain public sector customers outside the United States without CSC’s consent; and we have agreed not to solicit certain state and local government customers. As a result, our ability to engage in certain business activities 

22

will be constrained until the expiration of those restrictions. See “Part II—Item 8, Note 2—Corporate Allocations and Transition Agreements” for additional information.

We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the recent Spin-Off.

We believe that, as an independent publicly-traded company, we will be better able, among other things, to focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, to implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our specific needs, to design and implement corporate strategies and policies that are targeted to our business, to respond more effectively to industry dynamics, and to create effective incentives for our management and employees that are more closely tied to our business performance. However, having recently separated from CSC, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events. In addition, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We have limited recent operating history as an independent publicly-traded company and as a combined entity with SRA. Our and SRA’s historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results the combined company would have achieved and may not be a reliable indicator of the combined company’s future results.

Our historical and pro forma financial information for fiscal year 2016 included in this Form 10-K comprises Computer Sciences GS’s historical financial information, which is derived in part from CSC’s consolidated financial statements, and pro forma financial information for SRA. This information may not reflect what our and SRA’s results of operations and financial position would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded, combined company during fiscal year 2016, or what the combined company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. 

The Computer Sciences GS historical financial information for fiscal year 2016 may not reflect the results of operations and financial position we would have achieved as an independent publicly-traded company due to the following factors:

•Our historical financial information reflects allocations of corporate expenses from CSC for various corporate functions that CSC performed for us prior to the Spin-Off. These allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services as an independent publicly-traded company.

•The historical financial information of Computer Sciences GS does not reflect post-Spin-Off changes in our cost structure, personnel, tax profile, financing and business operations.

•We may be unable to purchase goods, services and technologies, such as insurance and healthcare benefits and computer software licenses, or access capital markets on terms that are as favorable to us as those we obtained as part of CSC prior to the Spin-Off. 

•Following the recent Spin-Off, we are responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent publicly-traded company, including costs related to corporate governance, investor and public relations and public reporting.

In addition, the pro forma financial data for fiscal year 2016 that gives effect to the merger with SRA are based in part on a number of estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions may prove not to be accurate, and accordingly, our pro forma financial data should not be assumed to be indicative of what our financial condition or results of operations actually would have been as a combined company and may not be a reliable indicator of what our financial condition or results of operations actually may be in the future.

We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with CSC that are based on the costs historically allocated to us by CSC.

In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, the Real Estate Matters Agreement, and the Non-U.S. Agency Agreement with CSC. These agreements are based on the costs historically allocated to us by CSC, and they may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arms-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Among other things, pursuant to the Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, as amended in February 2017, CSC retained ownership of certain intellectual property that we require to 

23

run our business. CSC has licensed certain rights to this intellectual property to us for use solely in connection with U.S. federal and certain U.S. state and local government customers, on a perpetual, royalty-free, non-assignable basis. Pursuant to the amendment of the Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, we will no longer be required to pay any maintenance fees or other amounts to CSC relating to any intellectual property rights, but we previously paid $95 million in aggregate in connection with various intellectual property rights. Under U.S. government cost accounting rules, it is possible that a portion of the amount that we paid to CSC may not be an allowable or allocable cost. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between CSC and us. We may have received better terms from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business.

Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous positions at CSC.

Even though our Board of Directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, some of our directors and officers continue to have a financial interest in CSC common stock and equity awards. These interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if we have disagreements with CSC about the contracts between us that continue or face decisions that could have different implications for us and CSC.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market

Our stock has had relatively limited trading history, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly.

There was no public market for our common stock prior to the Spin-Off. CSRA and SRA stockholders who received shares of our common stock may sell those shares in the public market, given a different business profile and market capitalization as an independent company. These shares are also eligible for resale in the public market without registration subject to volume, manner of sale and holding period limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The sales of significant amounts of our common stock or the perception in the market that this will occur may decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, some potential investors may await a more established pattern of financial performance as a public company before investing in the company.

We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including among other things:

•success or failure of our business strategies;

•our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;

•announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;

•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;

•changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;

•investor perception of our company and the IT services industry;

•overall market fluctuations;

•results from any material litigation or government investigation; and

•changes in laws and regulations (including tax laws and regulations) affecting our business.

Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.

We cannot assure investors that we will pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. 

We currently anticipate continuing to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Notwithstanding the current expectations for CSRA’s dividend policy, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the discretion of our Board. Our Board’s decisions regarding the payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business and covenants associated with debt obligations, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, 

24

industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividend in the future.

We have contracts with the U.S. government that are classified, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business.

During fiscal year 2017, approximately 14% of our revenue was derived from classified programs with the U.S. government that are subject to restrictions on our dissemination of certain information. Because we are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, the various risks associated with these contracts or services or any disputes or claims relating to such programs or services you may not have important information concerning our business, which will limit your insight into a substantial portion of our business and therefore may be less able to fully evaluate the risks related to that portion of our business.

Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and of Nevada law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.

Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Nevada law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These include provisions that:

•permit us to issue blank check preferred stock with voting, conversion and exchange rights that could negatively affect the voting power or other rights of our common stockholders, and the Board could take that action without stockholder approval. The issuance of our preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of CSRA;

•preclude stockholders from calling special meetings except where such special meetings are requested by stockholders representing 75% of the capital stock entitled to vote. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws prevent stockholder action by written consent for the election of directors and require the written consent of 90% of the capital stock entitled to vote for any other stockholder actions by written consent; and

•limit our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain stockholders.

These and other provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Nevada law may discourage, delay or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or a threatened acquisition or change in control of CSRA, including unsolicited takeover attempts, even though the transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their shares of our common stock at a price above the prevailing market price.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties