PART I   

 Item 1 — Business   

 History and Development of the Company  

 Willis Group Holdings is the ultimate holding company for the Group. We trace our history to 1828 and are one of the largest insurance brokers in the world.  

 Willis Group Holdings was incorporated in Ireland on September 24, 2009 to facilitate the change of the place of incorporation of the parent company of the Group from Bermuda to Ireland (the ‘Redomicile’). At the Effective Time, the common shares of Willis-Bermuda were canceled, the Willis-Bermuda common shareholders received, on a one-for-one basis, new ordinary shares of Willis Group Holdings, and Willis Group Holdings became the ultimate parent company for the Group.  

 For administrative convenience, we utilize the offices of a subsidiary company as our principal executive offices. The address is:  

 Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company  

 c/o Willis Group Limited   

 The Willis Building  

 51 Lime Street  

 London EC3M 7DQ  

 England  

 Tel: +44 203 124 6000  

 For several years, we have focused on our core retail and specialist broking operations. In 2008, we acquired HRH, at the time the eighth largest insurance and risk management intermediary in the United States. The acquisition almost doubled our North America revenues and created critical mass in key markets including California, Florida, Texas, Illinois, New York, Boston, New Jersey and Philadelphia. In addition, we have made a number of smaller acquisitions around the world and increased our ownership in several of our associates and existing subsidiaries, which were not wholly-owned, where doing so strengthened our retail network and our specialty businesses.  

 Available Information  

 The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ‘SEC’). You may read and copy any documents we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including Willis Group Holdings) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is www.sec.gov.  

 The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.willis.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished   

 pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ‘Exchange Act’) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K.  

 The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Risk Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter are available on our website, www.willis.com, in the Investor Relations-Corporate Governance section, or upon request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary c/o Office of General Counsel, Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company, One World Financial, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281.  

 6   
 About Willis   

 General  

 We provide a broad range of insurance brokerage, reinsurance and risk management consulting services to our clients worldwide. We have significant market positions in the United States, in the United Kingdom and, directly and through our associates, in many other countries. We are a recognized leader in providing specialized risk management advisory and other services on a global basis to clients in various industries including aerospace, marine, construction and energy.  

 In our capacity as an advisor and insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping clients determine the best means of managing risk, and negotiating and placing insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.  

 We assist clients in the assessment of their risks, advise on the best ways of transferring suitable risk to the global insurance and reinsurance markets and then execute the transactions at the most appropriate available price, terms and conditions for our clients. Our global distribution network enables us to place the risk in the most appropriate insurance or reinsurance market worldwide.  

 We also offer clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks. These   

 services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analyses), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting) as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We are not an insurance company and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account.  

 We and our associates serve a diverse base of clients including major multinational and middle-market companies in a variety of industries, as well as public institutions and individual clients. Many of our client relationships span decades. We have approximately 20,000 employees around the world (including approximately 3,000 at our associate companies) and a network in excess of 400 offices in some 100 countries.  

 We believe we are one of only a few insurance brokers in the world possessing the global operating presence, broad product expertise and extensive distribution network necessary to meet effectively the global risk management needs of many of our clients.  

 Business Strategy  

 Since 2008, we have launched a series of initiatives to drive profitable growth, including Shaping Our Future, Right Sizing Willis, and Funding for Growth. In 2011, we are realigning our business model to further grow the company and deliver the Willis Cause — our value proposition to clients.   

 The Willis Cause is our pledge that:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our Business  

 Insurance and reinsurance is a global business, and its participants are affected by global trends in capacity and pricing. Accordingly, we operate as one global business which ensures all clients’ interests are handled efficiently and comprehensively, whatever their initial point of   

 contact. We organize our business into three segments: North America and International, which together comprise our principal retail operations, and Global. In 2010 and 2009, approximately 50 percent of our total revenue was generated from within the US, with no other country contributing in    

 7   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 excess of 20 percent. For information regarding revenues, operating income and total assets per   

 segment, see Note 26 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein.  

 Global  

 Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide for the risks arising from specific industrial and commercial activities. In these operations, we have extensive specialized experience handling diverse lines of coverage, including complex insurance programs, and acting as an intermediary between retail brokers and insurers. We increasingly provide consulting services on risk management with the objective of assisting clients to reduce the overall cost of risk. Our Global business serves clients in around 190 countries, primarily from offices in the United Kingdom, although we also serve clients from offices in the United States, Continental Europe and Asia.  

 The Global business is divided into:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Effective January 1, 2011, we have changed our internal reporting structure; Global Markets International, previously reported within our International segment, is now reported in our Global division.  

 Global Specialties  

 Global Specialties has strong global positions in Aerospace, Energy, Marine, Construction, Financial and Executive Risks as well as Financial Solutions.  

 • Aerospace  

 We are highly experienced in the provision of insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk management services to Aerospace clients worldwide, including aircraft manufacturers, air cargo handlers and shippers, airport managers and other general aviation companies. Advisory services provided by Aerospace include claims recovery, contract and leasing risk management, safety services and market information. Aerospace’s clients include approximately one   

 third of the world’s airlines. The specialist Inspace division is also prominent in supplying the space industry through providing insurance and risk management services to approximately 40 companies.  

  •    Energy    

 Our Energy practice provides insurance brokerage services including property damage, offshore construction, liability and control of well and pollution insurance to the energy industry. Our Energy practice clients are worldwide. We are highly experienced in providing insurance brokerage for all aspects of the energy industry including exploration and production, refining and marketing, offshore construction and pipelines.  

  •    Marine    

 Our Marine unit provides marine insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, including hull, cargo and general marine liabilities. Marine’s clients include ship owners, ship builders, logistics operators, port authorities, traders and shippers, other insurance intermediaries and insurance companies. Marine insurance brokerage is our oldest line of business dating back to our establishment in 1828.  

  •    Construction    

 Our Construction practice provides risk management advice and brokerage services for a wide range of UK and international construction activities. The clients of the Construction practice include contractors, project owners, project managers, project financiers, professional consultants and insurers. We are a broker for many of the leading global construction firms.  

  •    Financial and Executive Risks    

 Our Financial and Executive Risks unit specializes in broking directors’ and officers’ insurance as well as professional indemnity insurance for corporations and professional firms.    

 8   
 About Willis   

  •    Financial Solutions    

 Financial Solutions is a global business unit which incorporates our political risk unit, as well as structured finance and credit teams. It also places structured crime and specialist liability insurance for clients across the broad spectrum of financial institutions as well as specializing in strategic risk assessment and transactional risk transfer solutions.  

 Willis Re  

 We are one of the world’s largest intermediaries for reinsurance and have a significant market share in all of the world’s major markets. Our clients are both insurance and reinsurance companies.  

 We operate this business on a global basis and provide a complete range of transactional capabilities, including, in conjunction with Willis Capital Markets & Advisory, a wide variety of capital markets based products. Our services are underpinned by leading modeling, financial analysis and risk management advice. We bolster and enhance all of these services with the cutting edge knowledge derived from our Willis Research Network, the insurance industry’s largest partnership with global academic research.  

 London Market Wholesale  

 This business unit was created on January 1, 2011 and amalgamates Faber & Dumas and Global Markets International.  

  •    Faber & Dumas    

 Faber & Dumas, our wholesale brokerage division, comprises London-based operation, Glencairn, together with our Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie, Special Contingency Risk and Hughes-Gibb units.   

  •   Glencairn principally provides property, energy, casualty and personal accident insurance to independent wholesaler brokers worldwide who wish to access the London, European and Bermudan markets.   

  •   The Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie unit provides specialist risk management and insurance services to fine art, diamond and jewelry businesses and operators of armored cars. Coverage is also obtained for vault and bullion risks.   

  •   The Special Contingency Risks unit specializes in producing packages to protect corporations, groups and individuals against special contingencies such as kidnap and ransom, extortion, detention and political repatriation.   

  •   The Hughes-Gibb unit principally services the insurance and reinsurance needs of the horse racing and horse breeding industry.    

  •    Global Markets International    

 Global Markets International works closely with our Global business segment to further develop access for our retail clients to global markets, and provide structuring and placing skills in the relevant areas of property, casualty, terrorism, accident & health, facultative and captives.  

 Willis Capital Markets & Advisory  

 Willis Capital Markets & Advisory, with offices in New York and London, provides advice to insurance and reinsurance companies on a broad array of mergers and acquisition transactions as well as capital markets products, including acting as underwriter or agent for primary issuances, operating a secondary insurance-linked securities trading desk and engaging in general capital markets and strategic advisory work.  

 Retail operations  

 Our North America and International retail operations provide services to small, medium and   

 major corporate clients, accessing Global’s specialist expertise when required.  

 North America  

 Our North America business provides risk management, insurance brokerage, related risk   

 services, and employee benefits brokerage and consulting to a wide array of industry and client    

 9   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 segments in the United States and Canada. With around 120 locations, organized into seven geographical regions including Canada, Willis North America locally delivers our global and national resources and specialist expertise through this retail distribution network.  

 In addition to being organized geographically and by specialty, our North America business focuses on four client segments: global, large national/middle-market, small commercial, and private client, with service, marketing and sales platform support for each segment.  

  •    North America Construction    

 The largest industry practice group in North America is Construction, which specializes in providing risk management, insurance brokerage, and surety bonding services to the construction industry. Willis Construction provided these services to around 25 percent of the Engineering News Record Top 400 contractors (a listing of the largest 400 North American contractors based on revenue). In addition, this practice group has expertise in owner-controlled insurance programs for large projects and insurance for national homebuilders.  

  •    Other industry practice groups    

 Other industry practice groups include Healthcare, serving the professional liability and other insurance and risk management needs of private and not-for-profit health systems, hospitals and physicians groups; Financial Institutions, serving the needs of large banks, insurers and other financial services firms; and Mergers & Acquisitions, providing due diligence, and risk management and insurance brokerage services to private equity and merchant banking firms and their portfolio companies.   

  •    Employee Benefits    

 Willis Employee Benefits, fully integrated into the North America platform, is our largest product-based practice group and provides health, welfare and human resources consulting, and brokerage services to all of our commercial client segments. This practice group’s value lies in helping clients control employee benefit plan costs, reducing the amount of time human resources professionals spend administering their companies’ benefit plans and educating and training employees on benefit plan issues.  

  •    Executive Risks    

 Another industry-leading North America practice group is Willis Executive Risks, a national team of technical professionals who specialize in meeting the directors and officers, employment practices, fiduciary liability insurance risk management, and claims advocacy needs of public and private corporations and organizations. This practice group also has expertise in professional liability, especially internet risks.  

  •    CAPPPS    

 The Captive, Actuarial, Programs, Pooling, Personal Lines and Strategic Outcomes (CAPPPS) group has a network of actuaries, certified public accountants, financial analysts and pooled insurance program experts who assist clients in developing and implementing alternative risk management solutions. The program business is a leader in providing national insurance programs to niche industries including ski resorts, auto dealers, recycling, environmental, and specialty workers’ compensation. The group also works with financial institutions to confirm their loans are properly insured and their interests are adequately protected.  

 International  

 Effective January 1, 2011, we have changed our internal reporting structure; Global Markets International, previously reported within our International segment, is now reported in our Global division.   

 Our International business comprises our operations in Eastern and Western Europe, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Asia-Pacific, Russia, the Middle East, South Africa and Latin America.  

 Our offices provide services to businesses locally in over 100 countries around the world, making use of    

 10   
 About Willis   

 skills, industry knowledge and expertise available elsewhere in the Group.  

 The services provided are focused according to the characteristics of each market and vary across offices, but generally include direct risk management and insurance brokerage, specialist and reinsurance brokerage and employee benefits consulting.  

 We believe the combined total revenues of our International subsidiaries and associates provide an indication of the spread and capability of our International network. The team generated over 30 percent of the Group’s total consolidated commissions and fees in 2010.  

 As part of our on-going strategy, we look for opportunities to strengthen our International market share through acquisitions and strategic investments. We have acquired a controlling interest in a broad geographic spread of other brokers. A list of significant subsidiaries is included in Exhibit 21.1 to this document.   

 We have also invested in associate companies; our significant associates at December 31, 2010 were GS & Cie Groupe (‘Gras Savoye’), France (31 percent holding) and Al-Futtaim Willis Co. LLC, Dubai (49 percent holding). In connection with many of our investments we retain the right to increase our ownership over time, typically to a majority or 100 percent ownership position. In addition, in certain instances our co-shareholders have a right, typically based on some price formula of revenues or earnings, to put some or all of their shares to us. On December 17, 2009 as part of a reorganization of the share capital of Gras Savoye our interest in that company reduced from 48 percent to 31 percent. In addition, we have the option to acquire a 100 percent interest in the capital of Gras Savoye in 2015. For further information on the Gras Savoye capital reorganization see ‘Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 13 — Investments in Associates’.  

 Customers  

 Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from major multinational corporations to middle-market companies. Further, many of our client relationships span decades, for instance our relationship with The Tokio Marine and Fire Insurance Company Limited   

 dates back over 100 years. No one client accounted for more than 10 percent of revenues for fiscal year 2010. Additionally, we place insurance with over 5,000 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10 percent of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2010.  

 Competition  

 We face competition in all fields in which we operate based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. According to the Directory of Agents and Brokers published by Business Insurance in July 2010, the 136 largest commercial insurance brokers globally reported brokerage revenues totaling $38 billion in 2009, of which Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. had approximately 28 percent, Aon Corporation had approximately 20 percent and Willis had approximately 9 percent.  

 We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms.   

 Insurance companies also compete with brokers by directly soliciting insureds without the assistance of an independent broker or agent.  

 Competition for business is intense in all our business lines and in every insurance market. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, many insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies are increasingly relying upon captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention    

 11   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buying insurance.  

 Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.  

 In 2005, we, along with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, agreed to implement certain business reforms which included codification of our voluntary termination of contingent commission arrangements with insurers. However, most other special, regional and local insurance brokers continued to accept contingent compensation and did not disclose the compensation received in connection with providing policy placement services to its customers. In February 2010, we entered into the Amended and Restated Assurance of Discontinuance with the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Amended and Restated Stipulation with the   

 Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York which ended many of the requirements previously imposed upon us. The new agreement no longer limits the type of compensation we can receive and lowers the compensation disclosure requirements we must make to our clients.  

 We continue to refuse to accept contingent commissions from carriers in our retail brokerage business. To our knowledge, we are the only insurance broker that takes this stance. We seek to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that we disclose to our clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. Although we continue to believe in the success of our strategy, we cannot be certain that such steps will help us to continue to generate profitable organic revenue growth.  

 Regulation  

 Our business activities are subject to legal requirements and governmental and quasi-governmental regulatory supervision in virtually all countries in which we operate. Also, such regulations may require individual or company licensing to conduct our business activities. While these requirements may vary from location to location they are generally designed to protect our clients by establishing minimum standards of conduct and practice, particularly regarding the provision of advice and product information as well as financial criteria.  

 United States  

 Our activities in connection with insurance brokerage services within the United States are subject to regulation and supervision by state authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, insurance laws in the United States are often complex and generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. That supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in   

 a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokerage in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions.  

 European Union  

 The European Union Insurance Mediation Directive introduced rules to enable insurance and reinsurance intermediaries to operate and provide services within each member state of the EU on a basis consistent with the EU single market and customer protection aims. Each EU member state in which we operate is required to ensure that the insurance and reinsurance intermediaries resident in their country are registered with a statutory body in that country and that each intermediary meets professional requirements in relation to their competence, good repute, professional indemnity cover and financial capacity.    

 12   
 About Willis   

 United Kingdom  

 In the United Kingdom, the statutory body is the Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’). The FSA has prescribed the methods by which our insurance and reinsurance operations are to conduct business, and has a wide range of rule-making, investigatory and enforcement powers aimed at meeting its overall aim of promoting efficient, orderly and fair markets and helping retail consumers achieve a fair deal. The FSA conducts monitoring visits to assess our compliance with regulatory requirements.  

 Certain of our activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment and securities licensing authorities. In the United States, Willis Capital Markets & Advisory operates through our wholly-owned subsidiary Willis Securities, Inc., a US-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member FINRA/SIPC, primarily in connection with investment banking-related services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. Willis Capital Markets provides advice on securities or investments   

 in the EU through our wholly-owned subsidiary Willis Structured Financial Solutions Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FSA.  

 Our failure, or that of our employees, to satisfy the regulators that we are in compliance with their requirements or the legal requirements governing our activities, can result in disciplinary action, fines, reputational damage and financial harm.  

 All companies carrying on similar activities in a given jurisdiction are subject to regulations which are not dissimilar to the requirements for our operations in the United States and United Kingdom. We do not consider that these regulatory requirements adversely affect our competitive position.  

 See Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors ‘Legal and Regulatory Risks’ for discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2010 we had approximately 17,000 employees worldwide of whom approximately 3,400 were employed in the United Kingdom and 6,500 in the United States, with the balance being   

 employed across the rest of the world. In addition, our associates had approximately 3,000 employees, all of whom were located outside the United Kingdom and the United States.  

 13   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Item 1A — Risk Factors