Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

 Financial Risk Management  

 We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes.   

 A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2 — Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure is provided in Note 24 — Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.  

 Foreign exchange risk management  

 Because of the large number of countries and currencies we operate in, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results.  

 We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. Outside the United States, we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in the local currency with the exception of our London market operations which earns revenues in several currencies but incurs expenses predominantly in pounds sterling.   

 The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our principal exposures to foreign exchange risk arise from:  

  •   our London market operations; and   

  •   translation.    

 London market operations  

 In our London market operations, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, principally US dollars, pounds sterling, euros and Japanese yen, but incur expenses almost entirely in pounds sterling.  

 We hedge this risk as follows:  

  •   to the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; and   

  •   to the extent our London market operations earn significant revenues in euros and Japanese yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.     

 Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25 percent of the next 12 months’ exposure in significant currencies. We do not hedge exposures beyond three years.  

 In addition, we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk on any net sterling asset or liability position in our London market operations. Where this risk relates to short-term cash flows, we hedge all or part of the risk by forward purchases or sales.  

 However, where the foreign exchange risk relates to any sterling pension assets benefit or liability for pensions benefit, we do not hedge the risk. Consequently, if our London market operations have a significant pension asset or liability, we may be exposed to accounting gains and losses if the US dollar and pounds sterling exchange rate changes. We do, however, hedge the pounds sterling contributions into the pension plan.  

 62   
 Market risk   

 Translation risk  

 Outside our US and London market operations, we predominantly earn revenues and incur expenses in the local currency. When we translate the results and net assets of these operations into US dollars for reporting purposes, movements in exchange rates will affect reported results and net assets. For example, if the US dollar strengthens against the euro, the reported results of our Eurozone operations in US dollar terms will be lower.  

 We do not hedge translation risk.   

 The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the US dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold forward and the weighted average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within three years.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents the difference between the contract amount and the cash flow in US dollars which would have been receivable had the foreign currency forward exchange contracts been entered into on December 31, 2010 or 2009 at the forward exchange rates prevailing at that date.    

 Income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK is generally offset by expenses in the same local currency but the Company does have exposure to foreign exchange movements on the net income   

 of these entities. The Company does not hedge net income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK.  

 Interest rate risk management  

 Our operations are financed principally by $1,750 million fixed rate senior notes issued by subsidiaries and $411 million under a 5-year term loan facility. Of the fixed rate senior notes,   

 $350 million are due 2015, $500 million are due 2016, $600 million are due 2017 and $300 million are due 2019. The 5-year term loan facility amortizes at the rate of $27 million per quarter. As of    

 63   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 December 31, 2010 we had access to, $520 million under revolving credit facilities of which $90 million has been drawn. The interest rate applicable to the bank borrowing is variable according to the period of each individual drawdown.  

 We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in both US dollars and pounds sterling.  

 As a consequence of our insurance and reinsurance broking activities, there is a delay between the time we receive cash for premiums and claims and the time the cash needs to be paid. We earn interest on this float, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as investment income.  

 This float is regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which it may be invested, most of which are short-term in maturity. We manage the interest rate risk arising from this exposure primarily through the use of interest rate swaps. It is our policy that, for currencies with significant balances, a minimum of 25 percent of forecast income arising is hedged for each of the next three years.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company entered into a series of interest rate swaps   

 for a total notional amount of $350 million to receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a semi-annual basis, with a maturity date of July 15, 2015. The Company has designated and accounts for these instruments as fair value hedges against its $350 million 5.625% senior notes due 2015. The fair values of the interest rate swaps are included within other assets or other liabilities and the fair value of the hedged element of the senior notes is included within the principal amount of the debt.  

 The table below provides information about our derivative instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and average interest rates analyzed by expected maturity dates. Notional principal amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. The duration of interest rate swaps varies between one and five years, with re-fixing periods of three to six months. Average fixed and variable rates are, respectively, the weighted-average actual and market rates for the interest hedges in place. Market rates are the rates prevailing at December 31, 2010 or 2009, as appropriate.  

 64   
 Market risk   

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (i)   Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest or quoted market rates as appropriate.   

  (ii)   Excludes accrued interest of $3 million, which is recorded in prepayments and accrued income in other assets.   

  (iii)   Excludes accrued interest of $3 million, which is recorded in accrued interest payable in other liabilities.    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (i)   Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest or quoted market rates as appropriate.   

  (ii)   Excludes accrued interest of $4 million, which is recorded in prepayments and accrued income in other assets.     

 65   
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data