MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and related financial information, are presented in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to assist in the evaluation of BB&T’s 2008 performance.  

Reclassifications  

In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the 2008 presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income.  

Mergers and Acquisitions Completed During 2008  

On December 12, 2008, BB&T announced the acquisition of all the deposits of Haven Trust Bank (“Haven Trust”) of Duluth, Georgia through an agreement with the FDIC. Haven Trust operated four branches with approximately $506 million in deposits. In addition to the acquisition noted above, BB&T acquired eleven insurance agencies and one nonbank financial services company during 2008. All of the acquisitions during 2008 were immaterial in relation to the consolidated results of BB&T. See Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding mergers and acquisitions.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. BB&T’s financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in BB&T’s consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include BB&T’s accounting for the allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit obligations associated with BB&T’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, and income taxes. Understanding BB&T’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding BB&T’s consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T’s significant accounting policies and changes in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

The following is a summary of BB&T’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T’s Board of Directors on a periodic basis.  

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that equal management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that are inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan and lease administration, the results of regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio. Also included in management’s estimates for loan and lease losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current economic events, the outcomes of   

39  

Table of Contents 

 which are uncertain. These events may include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries in which BB&T conducts business. The methodology used to determine an estimate for the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for loans and leases adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in the “Overview and Description of Business—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.”  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

A significant portion of BB&T’s assets and certain liabilities are financial instruments carried at fair value. This includes securities available for sale, trading securities, derivatives, certain loans held for sale, residential mortgage servicing rights, certain short-term borrowings and venture capital investments. At December 31, 2008, the percentage of total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value was 24.3% and less than 1%, respectively. The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for similar instruments. At December 31, 2008, 4.6% of assets measured at fair value were based on significant unobservable inputs. This is less than 1% of BB&T’s total assets. See Note 18 “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments.  

Securities  

The fair values for available-for-sale and trading securities are generally based upon quoted market prices or observable market prices for similar instruments. These values take into account recent market activity as well as other market observable data such as interest rate, spread and prepayment information. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity for certain trading securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment. As of December 31, 2008, BB&T had approximately $1.1 billion of available-for-sale and trading securities, which is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable inputs. These securities were primarily non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and related mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). BB&T has two classes of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. Residential MSRs are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income each period. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value, due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions, of its residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using an option adjusted spread (“OAS”) valuation model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. When available, fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to observable market data and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset amortization is updated based on actual   

40  

Table of Contents 

 results and updated projections. Please refer to Note 8 “Loan Servicing” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.  

Loans Held for Sale  

BB&T originates certain mortgage loans to be sold to investors. The majority of these loans are carried at fair value based on the Fair Value Option. For these loans, the fair value is primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of mortgage banking income while mortgage loan origination costs for loans held for sale for which the Corporation elected the Fair Value Option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. The changes in fair value of these assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans.  

Derivatives  

BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable data. BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee.  

Venture Capital Investments  

BB&T has venture capital investments that are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and therefore management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December 31, 2008, BB&T had $183 million of venture capital investments, which is less than 1% of total assets.  

Intangible Assets  

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share over the past several years has been enhanced significantly by mergers and acquisitions. BB&T’s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which often involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, which are inherently subjective. The amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. These estimates also include the establishment of various accruals and allowances based on planned facility dispositions and employee severance considerations, among other acquisition-related items. In addition, purchase acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair value of net assets acquired compared to the carrying value of goodwill. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of BB&T’s impairment testing process. The major assumptions used in the impairment testing process include the estimated future cash flows of each business unit and discount rates. Discount rates are unique to each business unit and are based upon the cost of capital specific to the industry in which the business unit operates. Management has evaluated the effect of lowering the estimated future cash flows or increasing the discount rate for each business unit by 10% and determined that no impairment of goodwill would have been recognized under this evaluation. However, as a result of the market disruption and the decline in market capitalization, the excess of the fair value over the carrying value of several reporting units continues to narrow. A continuing period of market disruption, or further market deterioration, may result in impairment of goodwill in the future.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  

BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees. The calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions. Actuarial valuations and assumptions used in the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves. These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond price and yield data collected as of the plan’s measurement date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty years. Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, apportioned into distinct maturity groups. For durations where no bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships from observable data in similar markets. These indices and hypothetical curves give only an indication of the appropriate discount rate because the cash flows of the bonds comprising the indices and curves do not match the projected benefit payment stream of the plan precisely. For this reason, we also consider the individual characteristics of the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate. Please refer to Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for disclosures related to BB&T’s benefit plans, including quantitative disclosures reflecting the impact that changes in certain assumptions would have on service and interest costs and benefit obligations.  

Income Taxes  

The calculation of BB&T’s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the Company’s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation. For tax positions that are uncertain in nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. For tax positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company’s overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary.  

Analysis of Financial Condition  

A summary of the more significant fluctuations in balance sheet accounts is presented below.  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, BB&T’s average assets totaled $136.9 billion, an increase of $10.5 billion, or 8.3%, compared to the 2007 average of $126.4 billion, primarily reflecting growth in average loans and leases and investment securities. Average loans and leases for 2008 were up $7.2 billion, or 8.2%, from 2007 and average investment securities increased $1.2 billion, or 5.1%, compared to 2007. The growth in average loans and leases was led by growth in average commercial loans and leases, which increased $5.1 billion, or 12.0%; average mortgage loans, which increased $1.1 billion, or 6.2%; and growth in average loans originated by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries, which increased $445 million, or 8.6%. Total earning assets averaged $120.9 billion in 2008, an increase of $8.5 billion, or 7.6%, compared to 2007. These averages and growth rates include the effects of acquisitions.  

BB&T’s average deposits totaled $88.8 billion, reflecting growth of $5.3 billion, or 6.4%, compared to 2007. The categories of deposits with the highest growth rates were other interest-bearing deposits, which increased $2.1 billion, or 26.7%, and other client deposits, which increased $2.4 billion, or 7.0%.  

Short-term borrowings include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, short-term bank notes, treasury tax and loan deposit notes payable and other short-term borrowings. Average short-term borrowings totaled $10.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 13.5%, from the 2007 average. BB&T also has used long-term debt for a significant portion of its funding needs. Long-term debt includes Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings by Branch Bank, capital securities issued by unconsolidated trusts and senior and subordinated debt issued by the Corporation and Branch Bank. Average long-term debt totaled $19.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, up $1.8 billion, or 9.9%, compared to 2007.  

42  

Table of Contents 

The compound annual rate of growth in average total assets for the five-year period ended December 31, 2008, was 9.9%. Over the same five-year period, average loans and leases increased at a compound annual rate of 10.5%, average securities increased at a compound annual rate of 7.5%, and average deposits grew at a compound annual rate of 9.3%. These balance sheet growth rates include the effect of acquisitions, as well as internal growth.  

For more detailed discussions concerning the causes of these fluctuations, please refer to the sections that follow.  

Securities  

The securities portfolio provides earnings and liquidity, and is managed as part of the overall asset and liability management process to optimize net interest income and reduce exposure to interest rate risk. Management has historically emphasized investments with duration of five years or less to provide flexibility in managing the balance sheet in changing interest rate environments. Total securities increased 41.8% from year-end 2007 to year-end 2008, to a total of $33.2 billion at December 31, 2008. The growth in the securities portfolio reflects the initial deployment of the capital invested by the Treasury Department in connection with the CPP. The purchase of additional securities at year-end 2008 was the most efficient and effective means of deploying the capital investment by the Treasury Department. It is anticipated that cash flows from pay downs and maturities from the securities portfolio will be reinvested into loans during 2009, and the overall size of the securities portfolio will eventually decline to a more traditional level.  

As of December 31, 2008, the total securities portfolio included $376 million in trading securities and $32.8 billion of available-for-sale securities. The available-for-sale portfolio comprised 98.9% of total securities at December 31, 2008. Management believes that the high concentration of securities in the available-for-sale portfolio allows flexibility in the management of the overall investment portfolio, consistent with the objectives of optimizing profitability, mitigating interest rate risk, supporting capital and providing liquidity.  

The following table provides information regarding the composition of BB&T’s securities portfolio for the years presented:  

Table 9  

Composition of Securities Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

At December 31, 2008, trading securities reflected on BB&T’s consolidated balance sheet totaled $376 million compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2007. The decline in the trading portfolio was largely the result of a reduction in Scott & Stringfellow’s trading inventory primarily due to management’s decision to reduce risk associated with trading activities.  

43  

Table of Contents 

The available-for-sale securities portfolio is primarily composed of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored entities. Mortgage-backed securities comprised 83.5% of the total available-for-sale securities portfolio at year-end 2008. The duration of the mortgage-backed securities was 1.60 years at December 31, 2008 compared to 2.91 years at December 31, 2007. The duration of the entire available-for-sale portfolio at December 31, 2008 was 2.77 years compared to 2.43 years at December 31, 2007.  

The market value of the available-for-sale portfolio at year-end 2008 was $517 million lower than the amortized cost of these securities. At December 31, 2008, BB&T’s available-for-sale portfolio had net unrealized losses, net of deferred income taxes, of $324 million, which are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity. At December 31, 2007, the available-for-sale portfolio had net unrealized losses of $28 million, net of deferred income taxes. The decline in the fair value of the securities available-for-sale portfolio during 2008 was largely a result of declines in the value of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities, as demand for securities in these asset classes has waned due to investor concerns about real estate related assets and the overall state of the economy. Declines in the values of these portfolios were partially offset by increases in the value of government sponsored entity securities.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, BB&T sold approximately $21.0 billion of available-for-sale securities and realized net gains totaling $211 million. In addition, BB&T periodically evaluates available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment. Based on its evaluations during 2008, BB&T recorded $104 million of other-than-temporary impairments related to certain debt and equity securities. No other-than-temporary impairments were recorded during 2007 and 2006.  

On December 31, 2008, BB&T also held certain investment securities having continuous unrealized loss positions for more than 12 months. As of December 31, 2008, the unrealized losses on these securities totaled $412 million. Substantially all of these losses were in non-agency mortgage-backed and municipal securities. At December 31, 2008, all of the available-for-sale debt securities with the exception of four non-agency mortgage-backed securities were investment grade. During the fourth quarter of 2008, four non-agency mortgage-backed securities, with a book value of approximately $293 million, were downgraded below investment grade. BB&T evaluated all of its non-agency mortgage-backed securities based on the underlying collateral as well as capital structure. BB&T holds the senior position on all of the non-agency mortgage-backed securities. The unrealized losses for all of the securities having continuous unrealized loss positions for more than 12 months are the result of changes in market interest rates and liquidity. Based on the evaluation on December 31, 2008, there were no credit losses evident from these securities. At December 31, 2008, BB&T had the ability and intent to retain these securities for a period of time sufficient to recover all unrealized losses.  

44  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s securities portfolio at December 31, 2008, segregated by major category with ranges of maturities and average yields disclosed.  

Table 10  

Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields on tax-exempt securities are calculated on a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory  

   federal   income tax rate of 35%. Yields for available-for-sale securities are calculated based on the  

   amortized   cost of the securities.  

 (2)   For purposes of the maturity table, mortgage-backed securities, which are not due at a single  

   maturity   date, have been allocated over maturity groupings based on the weighted average  

   contractual   maturities of underlying collateral.  

 (3)   Trading securities and securities with no stated maturity include equity investments that totaled  

   $682   million and trading securities that totaled $376 million.  

 (4)   Includes securities available-for-sale and trading securities of $32.8 billion and $376 million, respectively.  

The fully taxable equivalent (“FTE”) yield on the total securities portfolio was 5.05% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The FTE yield remained stable despite general declines in interest rates due to   

45  

Table of Contents 

 changes in the overall composition of the securities portfolio with a larger concentration of higher-yielding mortgage-backed and municipal securities. The yield on mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities decreased from 5.15% to 4.94% and the FTE yield on state and municipal securities decreased from 6.65% last year to 6.33% in the current year, while the yield on U.S. government-sponsored entity securities increased from 4.53% in 2007 to 4.86% in 2008. The yield on non-agency mortgage-backed securities increased from 5.78% during 2007 to 5.81% in 2008.  

Loans and Leases  

BB&T emphasizes commercial lending to small and medium-sized businesses, consumer lending, mortgage lending and specialized lending with an overall goal of maximizing the profitability of the loan portfolio while maintaining strong asset quality. The various categories of loan products offered by BB&T are discussed under “Lending Activities” in the “Overview and Description of Business” section herein. BB&T is a full-service lender with approximately one-half of its loan portfolio to businesses and one-half to individual consumers. Average commercial loans, including lease receivables, comprised 50.0% of the loan portfolio during 2008, compared to 48.3% in 2007. Average direct retail loans comprised 16.4% of average loans in 2008, compared to 17.6% in 2007. Average sales finance loans comprised 6.5% of average loans in 2008, compared to 6.7% in 2007. Average revolving credit loans comprised 1.7% of average loans in 2008 and 2007. Average mortgage loans comprised 19.5% of average total loans for 2008, compared to 19.9% a year ago. Average loans originated by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries represented 5.9% of average total loans in 2008 compared to 5.8% in the prior year.  

BB&T’s loan portfolio, excluding loans held for sale, increased $6.3 billion, or 7.0%, compared to year-end 2007. Average total loans and leases for 2008 increased $7.2 billion, or 8.2%, compared to 2007. The growth in the loan portfolio was primarily a result of strong internal growth in the commercial and industrial lending portfolio, as well as growth in the mortgage and specialized lending portfolios. The growth in average loans during 2008, includes the impact of the acquisition of Coastal Financial Corporation (“Coastal”), which was acquired during 2007.  

Average commercial loans and leases increased $5.1 billion, or 12.0%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. Overall, the commercial loan and lease portfolio showed strong growth during 2008. The mix of the commercial loan portfolio has shifted somewhat, as commercial real estate lending has slowed due to a slower real estate market and management’s efforts to reduce exposure to the real estate market. This has been offset by an increased focus on commercial and industrial loans. BB&T experienced stronger trends in the fourth quarter of 2008 both in commercial and industrial lending and income producing commercial real estate lending primarily due to challenges facing many in-market competitors that has allowed BB&T to attract new clients.  

The pace of growth in the direct retail loan portfolio slowed further in 2008, due to a difficult residential real estate market, which decreased demand for home equity loan products. Sales finance loans and revolving credit reflected solid growth rates of 5.3% and 14.0%, respectively, during 2008. BB&T concentrates its efforts on the highest quality borrowers in both of these product markets. Sales finance loans were negatively affected by weak auto sales; however BB&T has been gaining market share in this portfolio as many competitors have withdrawn from indirect automobile lending in our footprint.  

Average mortgage loans increased $1.1 billion, or 6.2%, compared to 2007. Management views mortgage loans as an integral part of BB&T’s relationship-based credit culture. BB&T is a large originator of residential mortgage loans, with 2008 originations of $16.4 billion. The vast majority of mortgage loans originated during 2008 were conforming mortgage loans that were either sold in the secondary market or held in the loans held for sale portfolio at year-end. Loans held for sale, which is almost entirely comprised of government-conforming mortgage loans increased 82.8% compared to year-end 2007 as refinance activity significantly increased late in the fourth quarter due to the historically low loan rates for mortgages. At December 31, 2008, BB&T was servicing $40.7 billion in residential mortgages owned by third parties and $19.0 billion of mortgage loans owned by BB&T, including $18.4 billion classified as mortgage loans and $573 million classified as securities available for sale.  

Average loans originated by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries increased $445 million, or 8.6%, compared to 2007. The growth in the specialized lending portfolio was driven by strong internal loan growth in   

46  

Table of Contents 

 automobile lending, as many competitors exited this business during 2008. Additionally, healthy growth trends were evident in premium finance and equipment finance during the fourth quarter.  

The average annualized FTE yield for 2008 for the total loan portfolio was 6.35% compared to 7.67% for the prior year. The 132 basis point decrease in the average yield on loans resulted primarily from the repricing of variable rate loans and maturing loans with higher yields that were replaced with lower-yielding loans and leases. The prime rate, which is the basis for pricing many commercial and consumer loans, declined 400 basis points during 2008 to 3.25% at year-end as the Federal Reserve Board lowered rates seven times during 2008 in response to the economic recession, challenges in the residential real estate markets, and disruptions in other financial markets. The average prime rate in effect during 2008 and 2007 was 5.09% and 8.05%, respectively.  

Asset Quality and Credit Risk Management  

BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  

   ·    limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend;  

   ·    establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  

   ·    careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks;  

   ·    ongoing servicing of individual loans and lending relationships;  

   ·    continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and  

   ·    periodically reevaluating the bank’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.  

BB&T’s lending strategy, which focuses on relationship-based lending within our markets and smaller individual loan balances, continues to produce credit quality that is better than its peer group of financial institutions. As measured by relative levels of nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, BB&T’s asset quality has remained significantly better than published industry averages.  

47  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes asset quality information for the past five years.  

Table 11  

Asset Quality  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 NOTE:   (1)   Items referring to loans and leases are net of unearned income and, except for loans and leases held for investment, include loans held for sale. 

    (2)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

During 2008, BB&T’s credit quality declined as a result of a very challenging economic environment. Nonperforming assets and credit losses increased further during the year as a result of the distressed residential real estate market and economic recession. Nonperforming assets increased from .52% of total assets at December 31, 2007 to 1.34% at year-end 2008. Net charge-offs for 2008 were .89% of average loans and leases and reflected an increase of 51 basis points from the .38% level recorded during 2007. The increases in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs were driven by continued deterioration in residential real estate markets and the overall economy with the largest concentration of credit issues occurring in Georgia, Florida and metro Washington, D.C. If the economy continues to deteriorate as is currently forecasted, management anticipates that net charge-offs and nonperforming assets will continue to increase into 2009.  

48  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes nonperforming assets and past due loans by loan type for the past three years.  

Table 12  

Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments compose BB&T’s allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses totaled $1.6 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase of 58.3% compared to $1.0 billion at the end of 2007. The allowance for loan and lease losses, as a percentage of loans and leases held for investment, was 1.62% at December 31, 2008, compared to 1.10% at year-end 2007. The allowance for credit losses increased by $592 million during 2008, primarily as a result of higher loss rates for residential real estate related lending, and their effect on the overall allowance model. The increase of $592 million included an increase of $570 million in the allowance for loan and lease losses and $22 million in the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. These increases resulted from increased migration of loans and lending commitments to higher risk grades, with the most significant increases occurring in the single family residential real estate acquisition, development and construction loan portfolio. Please refer to Note 5 “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures.  

Information relevant to BB&T’s allowance for loan and lease losses for the last five years is presented in the following table. The table is presented using regulatory classifications.  

Table 13  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

Deposits and Other Borrowings  

Client deposits generated through the BB&T banking network are the largest source of funds used to support asset growth. Total deposits at December 31, 2008, were $98.6 billion, an increase of $11.8 billion, or 13.7%, compared to year-end 2007. The increase in deposits during 2008 was driven by a $5.0 billion, or 49.9%, increase in other interest-bearing deposits and a $3.9 billion, or 11.0%, increase in other client deposits, which   

50  

Table of Contents 

 include money rate savings accounts, investor deposit accounts, savings accounts, individual retirement accounts and other time deposits. Interest checking accounts also increased by $1.4 billion from the prior year and client certificates of deposit (“CDs”) increased by $965 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, total deposits averaged $88.8 billion, an increase of $5.3 billion, or 6.4%, compared to 2007. The increase in average deposits was primarily the result of a $2.4 billion, or 7.0%, increase in average other client deposits, and a $2.1 billion, or 26.7%, increase in average other interest-bearing deposits. The overall increase in year-end deposits included the impact of the acquisition of $506 million in deposits from Haven Trust, which was completed late in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in average deposits also included the impact of the acquisition of Coastal which was completed during 2007.  

Average other client deposits represent the largest component of BB&T’s deposits and composed 41.3% of total average deposits for 2008, compared to 41.0% during 2007. CDs are the second largest source and composed 30.3% of total average deposits for 2008 compared to 31.2% for 2007. The remainder of client deposits consists of noninterest-bearing deposits and interest-checking accounts, which comprised 17.4% of total average deposits in the current year, compared to 18.5%, for last year. BB&T also gathers other interest-bearing deposits through wholesale funding products, which include negotiable certificates of deposit and Eurodollar deposits. Average other interest-bearing deposits represented 11.0% of total average deposits for 2008, as compared to 9.3% for 2007.  

BB&T experienced solid deposit growth during 2008, which accelerated during the second half of the year, as BB&T gained many new client relationships from competitors. The growth in deposits during 2008 included strong increases in corporate banking relationships and investor deposit accounts, as BB&T focused its efforts on these segments. In addition, BB&T was able to achieve growth in client CDs, even as rates declined to historical lows throughout the year. Average noninterest-bearing deposits declined slightly in 2008, as business clients continued to minimize their balances in noninterest-bearing accounts. The decline in business noninterest-bearing balances was offset by growth in balances from consumer clients. The growth in other interest-bearing deposits is largely driven by the relative cost of these funding sources compared to other short-term and long-term borrowings.  

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 2.50% during 2008, from 3.73% in 2007. The average cost for interest-bearing deposits declined during 2008 as management was able to lower rates in response to the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates. The average rates paid on the various categories of interest-bearing deposits also decreased as follows: CDs decreased to 3.66% in the current year from 4.61% in 2007; other client deposits decreased to 1.67% in the current year from 2.82% in 2007; interest checking decreased to 1.19% in 2008 from 2.31% in 2007; and other interest-bearing deposits decreased to 2.71% in 2008 from 5.15% in 2007.  

BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in meeting funding needs. While client deposits remain the primary source for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borrowings comprised 7.7% of total funding needs on average in 2008 as compared to 7.4% in 2007. See Note 9 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings used by the Corporation include Federal funds purchased, which comprised 5.4% of total short-term borrowings, and securities sold under repurchase agreements, which comprised 27.2% of short-term borrowings at year-end 2008. Master notes, which are short-term borrowings issued to BB&T’s clients, represented 15.8% of total short-term borrowings at December 31, 2008. U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes, borrowings under the treasury auction facility and short-term bank notes are also used to meet short-term funding needs and comprised the remaining 51.6% of these types of funding sources as of December 31, 2008. Short-term borrowings at the end of 2008 were $10.8 billion, an increase of $154 million, or 1.4% compared to year-end 2007. Average short-term borrowings totaled $10.6 billion during 2008 compared to $9.3 billion last year, an increase of 13.5%. The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 4.55% in 2007 to 2.44% during 2008. The decrease in the cost of short-term borrowings primarily resulted from a lower average Federal funds rate in effect during 2008 compared to 2007. At December 31, 2008, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to   

51  

Table of Contents 

 .25%. The following table summarizes certain pertinent information for the past three years with respect to BB&T’s short-term borrowings:  

Table 14  

Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under  

Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T also uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a lesser extent, regulatory capital. Long-term debt comprised 14.5% of total funding needs on average during 2008 and 14.3% in 2007. See Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. Long-term debt at December 31, 2008, totaled $18.0 billion, a decrease of $661 million, or 3.5%, from year-end 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008, average long-term debt increased $1.8 billion, or 9.9%, compared to the average for 2007. BB&T’s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which composed 54.6% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2008, subordinated notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 17.2% of the year-end balance, and junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts issued by the Corporation, which composed 13.0% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2008. The remaining long-term debt primarily consists of both unsecured senior and subordinated borrowings by Branch Bank. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and liquidity. The average rate paid on long-term debt decreased from 5.46% during 2007 to 4.25% during 2008 primarily because BB&T has issued floating rate instruments or elected to swap a portion of its fixed-rate long-term debt to floating rates.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, BB&T received notice that its $4 billion privately financed debt scheduled to mature in 2010 would be called effective October 14, 2008. The financing was called by BB&T’s counterparty because it was no longer profitable to the counterparty due to changes in interest rates. This decline was partially offset by increases in FHLB advances, which were used due to the more competitive rates obtained compared to other financing options. In addition, BB&T and Branch Bank issued new long-term debt during the third quarter of 2008 that provides additional regulatory capital. In September 2008, BB&T Capital Trust V (“BBTCT V”) issued $450 million of Capital Securities, with a fixed interest rate of 8.95% through September 15, 2063 and a floating rate, if extended, through September 15, 2068. BBTCT V, a statutory business trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware, was formed by BB&T for the sole purpose of issuing the Capital Securities and investing the proceeds thereof in Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by BB&T. BB&T has made guarantees which, taken collectively, fully, irrevocably, and unconditionally guarantee, on a subordinated basis, all of BBTCT V’s obligations under the Trust and Capital Securities. BBTCT V’s sole asset is the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by BB&T which have an initial maturity on September 15, 2063 and a final maturity date on September 15, 2068. The Junior Subordinated Debentures are subject to early redemption (i) in whole, but not in part, at any time under certain prescribed limited circumstances or (ii) in whole, or in part, pursuant to the call provisions after September 15, 2013. The Capital Securities of BBTCT V are subject to mandatory redemption in whole, or in part, upon repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures at maturity or their earlier redemption.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity needs are a primary consideration in evaluating funding sources. BB&T’s strategy is to maintain funding flexibility in order that the Corporation may react rapidly to opportunities that may become available in the marketplace. BB&T will continue to focus on traditional core funding strategies, supplemented as needed by the types of borrowings discussed above. See “Liquidity” herein for additional discussion.  

Shareholders’ Equity  

Shareholders’ equity totaled $16.0 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase of $3.4 billion, or 27.0%, from year-end 2007. This increase reflects the $3.1 billion of capital invested by the U.S. Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, during 2008, BB&T issued 13.3 million common shares of stock in connection with business combinations, equity-based incentive plans, the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan and a private placement of shares sold to the Company’s pension plan. These transactions increased shareholders’ equity by $357 million. Additionally, growth of $491 million in shareholders’ equity resulted from BB&T’s earnings retained after dividends to common shareholders. This growth was partially offset by a decrease to shareholders’ equity of $628 million from other comprehensive income, which principally relates to decreases in the fair values of available-for-sale securities and pension assets.  

Analysis of Results of Operations  

Consolidated net income for 2008 totaled $1.52 billion. Net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.50 billion, which generated basic earnings per common share of $2.73 and diluted earnings per common share of $2.71. Net income for 2007 was $1.73 billion and net income for 2006 totaled $1.53 billion. Basic earnings per common share were $3.17 in 2007 and $2.84 in 2006, while diluted earnings per common share were $3.14 and $2.81 for 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability are return on average assets (net income as a percentage of average total assets) and return on average common shareholders’ equity (net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders’ equity). BB&T’s returns on average assets were 1.11%, 1.37%, and 1.34% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The returns on average common shareholders’ equity were 11.44%, 14.25%, and 13.35% for the last three years.  

Net Interest Income  

Net interest income is BB&T’s primary source of revenue. Net interest income is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earned and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of the supporting funds (with an adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comparability with taxable items, i.e. the “FTE” adjustment) is measured by the net interest margin. The accompanying table presents the dollar amount of changes in interest income and interest expense, and distinguishes between the changes related to increases or decreases in average outstanding balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities (volume), and the changes related to increases or decreases in average interest rates on such assets and liabilities (rate). Changes attributable to both volume and rate have been allocated proportionately.  

For 2008, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $4.3 billion, compared with $3.9 billion in 2007 and $3.8 billion in 2006. Net interest income increased 9.4% in 2008 compared to 2007. The increase in net interest income during 2008 resulted primarily from liability costs repricing more quickly as short-term rates declined throughout the year. Net interest income increased 4.0% in 2007 compared to 2006, as the benefit from strong average earning asset growth of 10.6% was partially offset by the adverse impact from higher short-term rates in 2007 compared to 2006, which caused funding costs to increase at a faster pace than interest on earning assets.  

The FTE-adjusted net interest margin is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted net interest margin was 3.58% in 2008, 3.52% in 2007 and 3.74% in 2006. The average yield on interest earning assets decreased 105 basis points compared to the average yield during 2007, while the average cost of funds over the same time period decreased 130 basis points. The Federal Reserve Board began lowering rates in September 2007 and lowered short-term rates by 100 basis points in the last four months of 2007 and an additional 400 basis points during 2008. While many of BB&T’s liabilities   

53  

Table of Contents 

 reprice in a short period of time after a change in rates, there is typically a delay of between three and eighteen months before BB&T’s assets will be repriced. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2008 was caused by a combination of factors. BB&T entered 2008 in a liability sensitive position, which means that interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice more frequently than interest-earning assets. This resulted in lower funding costs throughout 2008, as interest-rates declined. Additionally, BB&T experienced some improvement in loan pricing in 2008. The net interest margin was negatively impacted five basis points by an adjustment of $67 million, as a result of a change in the income recognition on leveraged lease transactions in connection with BB&T’s settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In addition, the net interest margin has been negatively affected by the higher level of non-performing assets in 2008. The net interest margin contracted in 2007 for four primary reasons. First, the mix of asset growth shifted from higher-yielding commercial real estate and direct retail loans to lower-yielding mortgage loans and commercial and industrial loans. Second, higher levels of nonaccruals have negatively affected net interest income and the net interest margin. Third, increased liability costs, specifically a shift to higher-cost deposits from lower-cost transaction accounts and additional funding costs associated with a payment to the IRS that was made in January 2007 as described in the “Provision for Income Taxes” section below, contributed to the margin compression.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Table 15  

FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis  

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields are stated on a taxable equivalent basis assuming tax rates in effect for the periods presented.  

 (2)   Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements, interest-bearing deposits with banks, and other earning assets.  

 (3)   Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods shown, have been included for rate calculation purposes.  

 (4)   Nonaccrual loans have been included in the average balances. Only the interest collected on such loans has been included as income.  

 (5)   Includes securties available for sale at amortized cost and trading securities at fair value.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Credit Losses  

A provision for credit losses is charged against earnings in order to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that reflects management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the credit portfolios at the balance sheet date. The amount of the provision is based on continuing assessments of nonperforming and “watch list” loans and associated unfunded credit commitments, analytical reviews of loss experience in relation to outstanding loans and funded credit commitments, loan charge-offs, nonperforming asset trends and management’s judgment with respect to current and expected economic conditions and their impact on the loan portfolio and outstanding unfunded credit commitments. The methodology used is described in the “Overview and Description of Business” section under the heading “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Credit Commitments.” The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2008 was $1.4 billion, compared with $448 million in 2007 and $240 million in 2006.  

The provision for credit losses increased 222.5% during 2008 while total loans and leases held for investment increased 7.0% compared to the balance outstanding at the end of 2007. Net charge-offs were .89% of average loans and leases for 2008 compared to .38% of average loans and leases during 2007. The allowance for loan and lease losses was 1.62% of loans and leases held for investment and was 1.11x total nonaccrual loans and leases at year-end 2008, compared to 1.10% and 2.00x, respectively, at December 31, 2007. The increase in the provision for credit losses during 2008 compared to 2007 was largely driven by challenges in residential real estate markets and the overall economy with the largest concentration of credit issues occurring in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington D.C. Additional disclosures related to BB&T’s real estate lending by product type and geographic distribution can be found in Table 6 herein. The 86.7% increase in the provision for credit losses during 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily the result of these same issues.  

Noninterest Income  

Noninterest income has become, and will continue to be, a significant contributor to BB&T’s financial success. Noninterest income includes insurance income, service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on securities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from other activities. Noninterest income as a percentage of total revenues has steadily increased in recent years, totaling 41.4% for 2008. Exceeding 40% on this measure has been a management objective for several years. Management has established a goal for noninterest income to exceed 45% of total revenues in the next few years to further reduce BB&T’s reliance on traditional spread-based interest income, as fee-based activities are a relatively stable revenue source during periods of changing interest rates.  

56  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T’s noninterest income:  

Table 16  

Noninterest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

The 15.2% growth in noninterest income was the result of increased revenues from almost all of BB&T’s fee-based businesses during 2008. These increases were partially offset by declines in income from bank-owned life insurance and trust and investment advisory revenues. The 10.0% growth in noninterest income for 2007 was the result of increased revenues from all of BB&T’s major fee-based businesses. These increases were partially offset by trading losses at Scott & Stringfellow. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations reflect the impact of acquisitions.  

Income from BB&T’s insurance agency/brokerage operations were the largest source of noninterest income. Internal growth, combined with the expansion of BB&T’s insurance agency network through acquisitions during the last two years, resulted in growth of 8.8% in 2008 and 4.9% in 2007. The increase in insurance income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily related to revenues from a new product initiative that was introduced in the second half of 2007. Additionally, commissions for property and casualty and employee benefit insurance each increased $19 million. The increase in insurance commissions in 2008 compared to 2007 was largely a result of acquisitions completed during the year as soft market conditions affected the existing book of business. The increase in commission income during 2007 was primarily related to the sale of property and casualty, and employee benefit insurance, which increased $17 million and $9 million, respectively, compared to 2006.  

Service charges on deposit accounts represent BB&T’s second largest category of noninterest revenue. Service charge revenue grew $62 million, or 10.1%. Service charge revenue increased $63 million, or 11.5%, during 2007. The increases in service charge revenue were primarily due to higher revenues from overdraft items and strong transaction account growth during 2007 and 2008.  

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased $11 million, or 3.2%, compared to 2007 primarily as a result of increased revenues of $19 million from BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow. This increase was partially offset by a decline of $13 million related to commissions from retail accounts at Scott & Stringfellow. The 8.2% increase in 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from increased revenues of $20 million at Scott & Stringfellow. The remainder of the increase was generated by BB&T Investment Services, Inc.  

Other nondeposit fees and commissions, including bankcard fees and merchant discounts and checkcard fees increased $38 million, or 7.6%, during 2008 compared to 2007. During 2007, these categories increased $59 million,   

57  

Table of Contents 

 or 13.3%, compared to 2006. The increases in 2008 and 2007 included additional checkcard fees of $21 million and $25 million, respectively, as clients continued to show a preference for utilizing electronic forms of payment rather than traditional paper checks. Bankcard fees also grew $12 million in 2008 compared to 2007 and $17 million in 2007 compared to 2006, as a result of strong sales of merchant services.  

Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets managed, which is affected by stock market conditions. During 2008, trust and investment advisory revenues decreased by $15 million, or 9.3%, compared to 2007. During 2007, trust and investment advisory revenues increased by $8 million, or 5.2%, compared to 2006. The value of trust assets under management, including custodial accounts, has varied accordingly and was $33.4 billion, $36.9 billion and $33.7 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Income from mortgage banking activities includes gains and losses from the sale of mortgage loans, revenue from servicing mortgage loans, valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights, mortgage servicing rights-related derivative gains/losses and the amortization or realization of expected mortgage servicing rights cash flows. Mortgage banking income totaled $275 million, $115 million and $108 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table provides a breakdown of the various components of mortgage banking income and related statistical information:  

Table 17  

Mortgage Banking Income and Related Statistical Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

58  

Table of Contents 

Mortgage banking income increased $160 million, or 139.1% during 2008. BB&T adopted SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115,” (“SFAS No. 159” or the “Fair Value Option”) for the majority of loans originated for sale after January 1, 2008, and implemented the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109 “Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value through Earnings” (“SAB 109’). As a result of the adoption of both standards, mortgage banking income increased approximately $74 million compared to 2007. Of the $74 million increase relating to the adoption of these accounting standards, approximately $55 million relates to the elimination of the provisions of SFAS No. 91 “Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and a rescission of FASB Statement No. 17,” (“SFAS No. 91”) on loans accounted for at fair value and resulted in a corresponding increase in personnel expense. The net change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights resulted in a $38 million increase compared to 2007. The $38 million increase was the result of the mortgage servicing rights hedge outperforming the decline in the value of the asset. The positive hedge performance was attributable to (i) the strong appreciation of option-based hedge instruments, which occurs during periods of extreme interest rate volatility, and (ii) the favorable hedge effectiveness against the interest rate basis movements between mortgages and swap-based hedge instruments. Excluding the impact of these items, mortgage banking income increased $48 million, or 43.2%, compared to the prior year. The growth in mortgage banking income includes strong production revenues from both residential and commercial mortgage banking operations. The growth in commercial mortgage banking revenues was the result of the acquisition of Collateral Real Estate Capital, LLC (“Collateral”) in the fourth quarter of 2007. BB&T combined the operations of Collateral with its existing mortgage banking operations and renamed the subsidiary Grandbridge Real Estate Capital LLC (“Grandbridge”). The acquisition of Collateral significantly expanded the size and product offerings of BB&T’s commercial mortgage banking activities. Mortgage banking income increased $7 million, or 6.5%, during 2007. The growth in 2007 included an increase of $4 million, or 11.1%, in commercial mortgage banking income primarily generated by Grandbridge. The acquisition of Collateral in the fourth quarter of 2007 was the primary reason for the 125.4% increase in commercial mortgage loans serviced for others at year-end 2007 compared to the prior year-end. BB&T’s residential mortgage banking income also increased $3 million during 2007 compared to 2006. While residential mortgage loan sales increased 42.9% during 2007, gains and other revenues associated with those sales only increased 2.2% due to increased competition in the marketplace.  

BB&T recognized $107 million in net securities gains during 2008 compared to net losses of $3 million and $73 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. The net securities gains recognized in 2008 included $211 million of gains from securities sales and $104 million of losses as a result of other-than-temporary impairments. The losses recognized in 2006 were primarily in connection with an announced restructuring of a portion of the securities portfolio that was undertaken in the fourth quarter of 2006.  

Income from bank owned life insurance (“BOLI”) decreased $17 million, or 16.8%, in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to a valuation adjustment that resulted from a decline in the underlying assets of certain insurance policies. BOLI income increased $8 million, or 8.6%, in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Other income decreased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007. The current year included gains related to BB&T’s ownership interest and sale of Visa, Inc. stock that amounted to $80 million. In addition, revenues from client derivative activities were $22 million higher in 2008 compared to 2007. These increases were offset by a number of factors, including a $50 million decline in the value of various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits. The decline in the value of these assets is neutral to net income as these losses relate to participant’s accounts and reduce the amount of benefits that will be paid in the future. Earnings from investments in low income housing partnerships that generate tax benefits declined $39 million and net revenues from BB&T’s venture capital investments declined $26 million. In addition, the current year’s results were affected by certain items that were recorded in 2007, including the sale of an insurance operation and losses from capital markets activities as mentioned below. The 23.9%, or $28 million, decrease in 2007 compared to 2006, was primarily due to approximately $33 million in losses from capital markets activities during the last half of 2007. These losses were primarily caused by disruptions in the financial markets that decreased the value of certain trading securities and derivative contracts. In addition, BB&T sold an insurance operation during 2007, which produced a gain of $19 million. BB&T also generated $17 million in additional revenues from client derivative activities. Other income for 2007 also reflects lower revenues from venture capital investments, which decreased   

59  

Table of Contents 

 $15 million compared to 2006, and decreased revenues of $11 million related to various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits.  

The ability to generate significant amounts of noninterest revenue in the future will be very important to the continued financial success of BB&T. Through its subsidiaries, BB&T will continue to focus on asset management, mortgage banking, trust, insurance, investment banking and brokerage services, as well as other fee-producing products and services. BB&T plans to continue to pursue acquisitions of additional financial services companies, including insurance agencies and other fee income producing businesses as a means of expanding fee-based revenues. Also, among BB&T’s principal strategies following the acquisition of a financial institution is the cross-sell of noninterest income generating products and services to the acquired institution’s client base. As previously mentioned, management has set a goal to increase the contribution of noninterest revenue sources to 45% over the next few years.  

Noninterest Expense  

Noninterest expense totaled $3.9 billion in 2008, $3.6 billion in 2007 and $3.5 billion in 2006. Noninterest expense includes certain merger-related and restructuring charges recorded during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 as noted in Table 18 below. These amounts totaled $15 million in 2008, $21 million in 2007 and $18 million in 2006. Additional disclosures related to these merger-related and restructuring charges are presented in “Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges.” The table below shows the components of noninterest expense and the discussion that follows explains the composition of certain categories and the factors that caused them to change in 2008 and 2007.  

Table 18   

Noninterest Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

60  

Table of Contents 

The 7.8% increase in total noninterest expense during 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to increases in personnel costs, professional services and foreclosed property expense. The 3.4% increase in total noninterest expense during 2007 compared to 2006 reflects strong cost controls. The increases during 2008 and 2007 were impacted by the acquisitions of AFCO and Coastal during 2007 and several nonbank financial services companies during 2008 and 2007.  

Total personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest expense and includes salaries and wages, as well as pension and other employee benefit costs. The 2008 increase of 5.1% resulted primarily from additional salaries and wages as a result of acquisitions and the implementation of the fair value option for loans held for sale, which changed the accounting for loan origination costs. Total salaries and wages expense increased $148 million, or 8.6%, in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to annual salary increases and higher overall headcount. The increase also includes approximately $55 million related to the change in accounting for loans held for sale as discussed previously and a decrease in annual incentive compensation. The 10.8% decrease in pension and other employee benefit costs was driven by a decrease in nonqualified defined contribution expense of $52 million, which is based on the value of assets in the participant’s accounts. In addition, defined benefit plan expenses were down $23 million compared to 2007 due to contributions made to the qualified pension plan in 2007 and 2008 that increased the estimated return on plan assets that is recorded as a component of defined benefit plan expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in health care and other welfare expenses of $20 million compared to 2007. The 2007 increase of .8% resulted primarily from additional salaries and wages as a result of acquisitions and an increase in health care expenses. Total salaries and wages expense increased $15 million in 2007 compared to 2006, including higher equity-based compensation, which grew $12 million compared to 2006. The .5% increase in pension and other employee benefit costs was also affected by the additional salaries and wages expense, which caused increases in social security taxes and defined contribution plan expenses of $5 million each compared to 2006. In addition, health care and other welfare expenses increased $14 million which were offset by a decrease in pension expense of $18 million compared to 2006. Additional disclosures relating to BB&T’s benefit plans can be found in Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $32 million, or 6.7%, in 2008. During 2007, net occupancy and equipment expense increased by $28 million, or 6.2%. The increases in 2008 and 2007 were largely a result of increased lease expenses due to BB&T’s de novo branching strategy.  

Other noninterest expenses increased $146 million, or 13.7%, compared to 2007, which reflected an increase of $75 million, or 7.6%, compared to 2006. The 2008 increase was primarily the result of increases in professional services and foreclosed property expense of $61 million and $48 million, respectively, which are directly related to the downturn in the residential real estate markets. Regulatory charges, software expenses and loan processing costs also increased $16 million, $16 million and $14 million, respectively, from the prior year. The 2007 increase reflected higher professional services, marketing expenses, foreclosed property expenses and loan processing costs. The increases for 2008 and 2007 were impacted by acquisitions completed during the past two years. Please refer to Table 18 for additional detail on fluctuations in other categories of noninterest expense.  

Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

BB&T recorded certain merger-related and restructuring charges during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006. These charges are reflected in BB&T’s Consolidated Statements of Income as a category of noninterest expense. Please Refer to Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a summary of mergers and acquisitions consummated during the three years ended December 31, 2008.  

The 2008 net merger-related and restructuring charges of $15 million were primarily associated with the acquisitions of insurance agencies and other merger-related and restructuring activities. During 2007, BB&T recorded merger-related and restructuring charges of $21 million. These expenses were recorded in connection with the acquisition of Coastal and other merger-related and restructuring activities. During 2006, BB&T recorded $18 million of merger-related and restructuring charges. These amounts were primarily associated with the write-off of duplicate software and systems conversions in connection with the acquisition of Main Street Banks Inc., which was completed during the year.  

61  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the components of merger-related and restructuring charges included in noninterest expenses. This table includes changes to previously recorded merger-related accruals and period expenses for merger-related items that must be expensed as incurred. Items that are required to be expensed as incurred include certain expenses associated with systems conversions, data processing, training, and other costs.  

Table 19  

Summary of Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges (Gains)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Severance and personnel-related costs or credits include severance, employee retention, payments related to change-in-control provisions of employment contracts, outplacement services and other benefits associated with employee termination or reversals of previously estimated amounts, which typically occur in corporate support and data processing functions. Occupancy and equipment charges or credits represent merger-related and restructuring costs or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipment write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment. Credits may result when obsolete properties or equipment are sold for more than originally estimated. Other merger-related and restructuring charges or credits include expenses necessary to convert and combine the acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply inventory write-offs, litigation accruals, and other similar charges.  

In conjunction with the consummation of an acquisition and the completion of other requirements, BB&T typically accrues certain merger-related expenses related to estimated severance and other personnel costs, costs to terminate lease contracts, costs related to the disposal of duplicate facilities and equipment, costs to terminate data processing contracts and other costs associated with an acquisition. The following tables present a summary of activity with respect to BB&T’s merger and restructuring accruals. These tables include costs reflected as expenses, as presented in the table above, and certain accruals recorded through purchase accounting adjustments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

62  

Table of Contents 

The liabilities for severance and personnel-related costs relate to severance liabilities that will be paid out based on such factors as expected termination dates, the provisions of employment contracts and the terms of BB&T’s severance plans. The remaining occupancy and equipment accruals relate to costs to exit certain leases and to dispose of excess facilities and equipment. Such liabilities will be utilized upon termination of the various leases and sale of duplicate property.  

In general, a major portion of accrued costs are utilized in conjunction with or immediately following the systems conversion, when most of the duplicate positions are eliminated and the terminated employees begin to receive severance. Other accruals are utilized over time based on the sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or the expiration of lease contracts. Merger accruals are re-evaluated periodically and adjusted as necessary. The remaining accruals at December 31, 2008 are expected to be utilized during 2009, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

BB&T’s provision for income taxes totaled $550 million for 2008, a decrease of $286 million, or 34.2%, compared to 2007. The decline in the provision for income taxes during 2008 was largely due to lower pretax income, offset by a credit of $60 million related to leveraged leases as discussed below. The provisions for income taxes totaled $836 million in 2007 and $945 million in 2006. BB&T’s effective tax rates for the years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 26.6%, 32.5%, and 38.2%, respectively. In 2006, the higher provision for income taxes and the higher effective tax rate were primarily the result of an adjustment of $139 million to BB&T’s tax reserves for leveraged lease transactions as discussed below. A reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate is included in Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein.  

BB&T has extended credit to, and invested in, the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments together with certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment have reduced BB&T’s overall effective tax rate from the statutory rate in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

BB&T continually monitors and evaluates the potential impact of current events and circumstances on the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis of its income tax positions and, accordingly, BB&T’s effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future. On a periodic basis, BB&T evaluates its income tax positions based on tax laws and regulations and financial reporting considerations, and records adjustments as appropriate. This evaluation takes into consideration the status of current taxing authorities’ examinations of BB&T’s tax returns, recent positions taken by the taxing authorities on similar transactions, if any, and the overall tax environment in relation to tax-advantaged transactions. Accordingly, the results of these examinations may alter the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. In addition, BB&T may make payments or deposits to the IRS in connection with tax disputes to stop the accrual of additional interest and penalties, while it pursues resolution of these matters. Please refer to Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s unresolved tax issues related to tax examinations by the IRS and other taxing authorities.  

The IRS disallowed certain deductions taken by BB&T on leveraged lease transactions during 1997-2002. In 2004, BB&T filed a lawsuit against the IRS to pursue a refund of amounts assessed by the IRS related to a leveraged lease transaction entered into during 1997. On January 4, 2007, the United States Middle District Court of North Carolina issued a summary judgment in favor of the IRS related to BB&T’s lawsuit. Based on a review of the summary judgment by BB&T’s counsel, BB&T filed a notice of appeal with the United States Appeals Court for the Fourth Circuit, based in Richmond, Virginia. On April 29, 2008, the United States Appeals Court for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the lower court’s decision.  

Due to the timing of the District Court’s ruling and its potential impact on BB&T’s other leveraged lease transactions, BB&T recorded $139 million in additional reserves in the fourth quarter of 2006 and paid $1.2 billion to the IRS during the first quarter of 2007. This payment represented the total tax and interest due on these transactions for all open years. The tax paid relates to differences in the timing of income recognition and deductions for income tax purposes for which deferred taxes had been previously provided. During the fourth quarter of 2008, BB&T agreed to treat its leveraged leases in accordance with the IRS’s proposal that, among   

63  

Table of Contents 

 other things, allows 20% of deductions, imputes interest income and deems the remaining transactions to be terminated as of December 31, 2008. As a result of this settlement, BB&T recognized pre-tax interest income of $93 million, or $60 million after-tax, which is reflected as a reduction in tax expense. As a result of changes in the timing of tax payments, FSP FAS 13-2 required a recalculation of each transaction that resulted in a $67 million charge to interest income and a corresponding $24 million tax benefit.  

Market Risk Management  

The effective management of market risk is essential to achieving BB&T’s strategic financial objectives. As a financial institution, BB&T’s most significant market risk exposure is interest rate risk; however, market risk also includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk. The primary objective of interest rate risk management is to minimize any adverse effect that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income. This is accomplished through active management of asset and liability portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportunities in BB&T’s portfolios of assets and liabilities that will produce consistent net interest income during periods of changing interest rates. BB&T’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee monitors loan, investment and liability portfolios to ensure comprehensive management of interest rate risk. These portfolios are analyzed for proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios.  

The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve relatively stable net interest margins and assure liquidity by coordinating the volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets, deposits and borrowed funds. It is the responsibility of the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate performance goals. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term strategies with respect to interest rate risk exposure and liquidity. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee meets regularly to review BB&T’s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in interest rates is within acceptable standards.  

BB&T utilizes a variety of financial instruments to manage various financial risks. These instruments, commonly referred to as derivatives, primarily consist of interest-rate swaps, swaptions, caps, floors, collars, financial forward and futures contracts, when-issued securities and options written and purchased. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage risk related to securities, business loans, Federal funds purchased, long-term debt, mortgage servicing rights, mortgage banking operations and certificates of deposit. BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. BB&T’s derivatives produced a benefit to net interest income of $101 million during 2008 and resulted in a decrease in net interest income of $19 million and $8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in benefits to net interest income from 2007 to 2008 can primarily be attributed to decreases in rates that affected the benefits received on BB&T’s interest rate swaps on its medium and long-term debt.  

Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts. Notional amounts only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and do not represent amounts to be exchanged between parties, and are not a measure of financial risk. On December 31, 2008, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $74.2 billion. The estimated net fair value of open contracts was $626 million at December 31, 2008.  

See Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures.  

Impact of Inflation and Changing Interest Rates  

The majority of BB&T’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories.   

64  

Table of Contents 

 Fluctuations in interest rates and actions of the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the availability and cost of credit have a greater effect on a financial institution’s profitability than do the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates and inflationary trends.  

BB&T’s interest rate sensitivity is illustrated in the following table. The table reflects rate-sensitive positions at December 31, 2008, and is not necessarily indicative of positions on other dates. The carrying amounts of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities are presented in the periods in which they next reprice to market rates or mature and are aggregated to show the interest rate sensitivity gap. To reflect anticipated prepayments, certain asset and liability categories are shown in the table using estimated cash flows rather than contractual cash flows.  

Table 20  

Interest Rate Sensitivity Gap Analysis  

December 31, 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Securities based on amortized cost.  

 (2)   Loans and leases include loans held for sale and are net of unearned income.  

 (3)   Projected runoff of deposits that do not have a contractual maturity date was computed based upon decay rate assumptions developed by bank regulators to assist banks in addressing FDICIA rule 305.  

 (4)   The maturity periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact of hedging strategies.  

Management uses Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis (“Simulation”) to measure the sensitivity of projected earnings to changes in interest rates. The Simulation model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for a rolling two-year period of time. Simulation takes into account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, investments and any commitments to enter into those transactions. Management monitors BB&T’s interest sensitivity by means of a computer model that incorporates the current volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities and payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with multiple scenarios of projected prepayments, repricing opportunities and anticipated volume growth. Using this information, the model projects earnings based on projected portfolio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios. This level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in interest rates and portfolio balances may have on the earnings of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that it provides a better illustration of the   

65  

Table of Contents 

 sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as static or dynamic gap. In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) analysis to focus on changes in capital given potential changes in interest rates. This measure also allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analysis window contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T’s assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the economic value of the Banks’ equity.  

The asset/liability management process requires a number of key assumptions. Management determines the most likely outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T’s current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach performance goals.  

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next twelve months under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the Interest Sensitivity Simulation computer model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sensitivity, customer preferences and capital plans. The resulting change in interest sensitive income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest sensitive income has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 21  

Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During the first quarter of 2008, the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee revised its policy for measuring interest sensitivity to align more with peers. The new parameters for asset/liability management prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months for a linear change of 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining eight month period, and a maximum negative impact of 4% for a linear change of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month period. Previously, management’s policy was a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 3% for the next 12 months for a linear change of 150 basis points over six months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining six month period, and a maximum negative impact of 6% for a linear change of 300 basis points over 12 months. Management only modeled a negative 25 basis point decline in the current period, because larger declines would have resulted in a Federal Funds rate of less than zero.  

66  

Table of Contents 

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE as projected under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the EVE model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, and deposit sensitivity. The resulting change in the economic value of equity reflects the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 22  

Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Liquidity  

Liquidity represents BB&T’s continuing ability to meet funding needs, primarily deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as trading securities and securities available for sale, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sale.  

The purpose of BB&T Corporation (the “Parent Company”) is to serve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The assets of the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of the Parent Company are principal and interest on master notes, long-term debt, and redeemable capital securities. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from issuance of long-term debt and master notes. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for the retirement of common stock, investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to shareholders, and interest and principal payments due on long-term debt and master notes.  

The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements has been dividends declared from Branch Bank, which totaled $1.2 billion during 2008, and net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, which totaled $716 million in 2008. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, master note balances totaled $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively.  

In late 2005, the SEC passed major changes to the securities registration process, which especially benefited larger companies who frequently access the capital markets. The changes to the securities registration process allow companies who have met certain eligibility requirements to file a registration statement that immediately becomes effective and permits the company to pay the fees related to the registration of the securities at the time of issuance. This has effectively eliminated the need to periodically file shelf registration statements and estimate the amount of securities that will be needed in the future. The change in regulations also has greatly enhanced the ability of BB&T to access the capital markets.  

The Parent Company had five issues of subordinated notes outstanding totaling $3.1 billion at December 31, 2008. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, BB&T had $2.3 billion of junior subordinated debentures outstanding to unconsolidated trusts. Please refer to Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information with respect to these subordinated notes and junior subordinated debentures.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional certificates of deposit, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, participation in the Treasury, Tax and Loan and Special Direct Investment programs with the Federal Reserve Bank, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered certificates of deposit and a borrower in custody program with the Federal Reserve Bank for the discount window. As of December 31, 2008, BB&T has approximately $44 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents approximately 242% of one year wholesale funding maturities.  

BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies’ views of BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T and Branch Bank. The ratings for BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table below.  

Table 23  

Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank  

December 31, 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T and Branch Bank have Contingency Funding Plans (“CFP”) designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet its ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. The CFP is designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under various “stress” scenarios. Additionally, the CFP provides a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The CFP addresses authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options, and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.  

Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. See Note 6 “Premises and Equipment,” Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” and Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.  

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, and Related Party Transactions  

The following table presents, as of December 31, 2008, BB&T’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded in connection with FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for   

68  

Table of Contents 

 uncertainty in Income Taxes” because management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments that may be required in connection with these liabilities. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Table 24  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  

December 31, 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T’s significant commitments include certain investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects throughout its market area. BB&T enters into such arrangements as a means of supporting local communities and recognizes tax credits relating to these investments. At December 31, 2008, BB&T’s investments in such projects totaled $891 million, which includes outstanding commitments of $412 million. BB&T typically acts as a limited partner in these investments and does not exert control over the operating or financial policies of the partnerships. Branch Bank typically provides financing during the construction and development of the properties; however, permanent financing is generally obtained from independent third parties upon completion of a project. As of December 31, 2008, BB&T had $161 million in loan commitments outstanding related to these projects, of which $81 million had been funded. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and loan commitments made. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of these investments in limited partnerships.  

In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financial risk. Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also issues standard representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. Counterparties in many of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T.  

BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits. In these states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that state.  

BB&T has investments and future funding commitments to certain venture capital funds. As of December 31, 2008, BB&T had investments of $168 million, net of minority interest, related to these ventures and future   

69  

Table of Contents 

 funding commitments of $222 million. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and future funding commitments made.  

Merger and acquisition agreements of businesses other than financial institutions occasionally include additional incentives to the acquired entities to offset the loss of future cash flows previously received through ownership positions. Typically, these incentives are based on the acquired entity’s contribution to BB&T’s earnings compared to agreed-upon amounts. When offered, these incentives are typically issued for terms of three to five years. As certain provisions of these agreements do not specify dollar limitations, it is not possible to quantify the maximum exposure resulting from these agreements.  

In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and financial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

BB&T previously contracted with an independent third party for the disbursement of official checks. BB&T terminated its arrangement with the third party during 2008. Under the terms of the agreement, BB&T acted as an agent for the third party in the issuance of official checks. Funds received from the buyers of official checks were transferred to the third party issuer to cover the checks when they are ultimately presented for payment. At December 31, 2008, the third party issuer had outstanding official checks that had been sold by BB&T totaling $97 million. The official check program is contractually arranged to substantially limit BB&T’s exposure to loss, since the third party is required to invest the funds received and maintain an equal relationship between outstanding checks and the balances available to cover the checks. BB&T monitors this relationship through a reconciliation process. However, in the event that the third party failed to honor official checks BB&T had sold as its agent, it is likely that BB&T would choose to reimburse the purchasers, though not contractually or legally obligated to do so.  

BB&T’s significant commitments and obligations are summarized in the accompanying table. Not all of the commitments presented in the table will be used thus the actual cash requirements are likely to be significantly less than the amounts reported.  

Table 25  

Summary of Significant Commitments  

December 31, 2008  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Other commitments include unfunded business loan commitments, unfunded overdraft protection on demand deposit accounts and other unfunded commitments to lend.  

Related Party Transactions  

The Corporation may extend credit to certain officers and directors in the ordinary course of business. These loans are made under substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking regulations.  

Capital  

The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T’s principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support BB&T’s comprehensive risk profile, to preserve a sufficient capital base from which to support future growth, to provide a competitive return to shareholders, to comply with regulatory standards and to achieve optimal credit ratings for BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on a consolidated basis. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that will result in BB&T being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes and to maintain sufficient capital relative to the Corporation’s level of risk. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain consolidated capital levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with BB&T’s peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. Further, management particularly monitors and intends to maintain the following minimum capital ratios:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments of cash dividends to BB&T’s shareholders, which have generally been in the range of 40.0% to 60.0% of earnings, and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125.0%. The active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of BB&T’s capital position.  

The capital of the subsidiaries also is regularly monitored to determine if the levels that management believes are the most beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Management intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank and BB&T FSB at levels that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain Branch Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory and other operating considerations, in the form of special dividend payments.  

While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Corporation temporarily falling below its minimum guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management’s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted minimums within a reasonable period of time. Such temporary decreases below these minimums are not considered an infringement of BB&T’s overall capital policy provided the Corporation and Branch Bank remain “well-capitalized.”  

Capital Adequacy and Resources  

Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements with respect to risk-based capital adequacy. Capital adequacy is an important indicator of financial stability and performance.  

Risk-based capital ratios measure capital as a percentage of a combination of risk-weighted balance sheet and off-balance sheet risk. The risk-weighted values of both balance sheet and off-balance sheet items are determined in accordance with risk factors specified by Federal bank regulatory pronouncements.  

Tier 1 capital is calculated as common shareholders’ equity, excluding the over- or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets, net of applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments. Tier 2 capital may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses. Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referred to as total regulatory capital. Tier 1 capital is required to be at least 4% of risk-weighted assets, and total capital must be at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, with one half of the minimum consisting of Tier 1 capital.  

In addition to the risk-based capital measures described above, regulators have also established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. The minimum required Tier 1 leverage ratio ranges from 3% to 5% depending upon Federal bank regulatory agency evaluations of an organization’s overall safety and soundness. BB&T’s regulatory capital and ratios are set forth in the following table.  

71  

Table of Contents 

Table 26  

Capital—Components and Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As further described below and reflected in the table, BB&T has entered into a transaction involving the issuance of capital securities (“Capital Securities”) by a Delaware statutory trust formed by the Company (the “Trust”). Simultaneously with the closing of this transaction, BB&T entered into a replacement capital covenant (the “Replacement Capital Covenant”) for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness of the Company or its largest depository institution subsidiary (the “Covered Debt”). The Replacement Capital Covenant provides that neither BB&T nor any of its subsidiaries (including the Trust) will repay, redeem or purchase any of the Capital Securities and the securities held by the Trust (the “Other Securities”), as applicable, on or before the date specified in the Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Capital Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and (ii) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board.  

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for the transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital Securities issued, (iv) Other Securities, and (v) applicable Covered Debt.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Common Stock and Dividends  

BB&T’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on earnings from operations, the adequacy of capital and the availability of liquid assets for distribution. BB&T’s ability to generate liquid assets for distribution is dependent on the ability of Branch Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The payment of cash dividends is an integral part of providing a competitive return on shareholders’ investments. The Corporation’s policy is to accomplish this while retaining sufficient capital to support future growth and to meet regulatory requirements. BB&T’s common dividend payout ratio, computed by dividing dividends paid per common share by basic earnings per common share, was 68.13% in 2008 as compared to 55.52% in 2007. BB&T’s payout ratio was higher in 2008 due to lower earnings during the economic recession. BB&T’s annual cash dividends paid per common share increased 5.7% during 2008 to $1.86 per common share for the year, as compared to $1.76 per common share in 2007. This increase marked the 37th consecutive year that the Corporation’s annual cash dividend paid to shareholders has been increased. A discussion of dividend restrictions is included in Note 16 “Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and in the “Regulatory Considerations” section.   

72  

Table of Contents 

 In addition, in connection with the sale of preferred stock to the Treasury Department under the CPP, BB&T is restricted from raising its dividend above the current level of $.47 per share, without the prior approval of the Treasury Department, for three years or until the preferred stock has been repaid.  

BB&T’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “BBT”. BB&T’s common stock was held by approximately 358,000 shareholders at December 31, 2008 compared to approximately 324,000 at December 31, 2007. The accompanying table, “Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Dividends Paid on Common Stock,” sets forth the quarterly high and low trading prices and closing sales prices for BB&T’s common stock and the dividends paid per share of common stock for each of the last eight quarters.  

Table 27  

Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Share Repurchases  

BB&T has periodically repurchased shares of its own common stock. In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase.  

On June 27, 2006, BB&T’s Board of Directors granted authority under a plan (the “2006 Plan”) for the repurchase of up to 50 million shares of BB&T’s common stock as needed for general corporate purposes. The 2006 Plan also authorizes the repurchase of the remaining shares from the previous authorization. The 2006 Plan remains in effect until all the authorized shares are repurchased unless modified by the Board of Directors. No shares were repurchased in connection with the 2006 Plan during 2008. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, BB&T repurchased 7 million shares and 22 million shares of common stock, respectively. In connection with the sale of preferred stock to the Treasury Department under the CPP, BB&T is restricted from repurchasing shares of its common stock, except for shares repurchased in connection with employee benefit plans based on normal past practices, for three years or until the preferred stock has been repaid.  

Table 28  

Share Repurchase Activity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Repurchases reflect shares exchanged or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under BB&T's equity-based compensation plans.  

 (2)   Excludes commissions.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Segment Results  

BB&T’s operations are divided into seven reportable business segments: the Banking Network, Residential Mortgage Banking, Sales Finance, Specialized Lending, Insurance Services, Financial Services, and Treasury. These operating segments have been identified based primarily on BB&T’s organizational structure. See Note 21 “Operating Segments”, in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein, for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s operating segments, the internal accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments as required by SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the “Noninterest Income” and “Noninterest Expense” sections of this discussion and analysis. Merger-related expenses in 2008, 2007 and 2006, the gains related to BB&T’s ownership interest with Visa, Inc. in 2008, certain securities gains and losses recorded in 2008, the net impact of the after-tax gain associated with BB&T’s leveraged lease settlement recorded in 2008, the additional tax provision recorded in 2006, the loss on sales of securities incurred in connection with the partial portfolio restructuring in 2006 and certain other charges are excluded from segment results as presented herein.  

Banking Network  

The Banking Network had solid internal loan and deposit growth during 2008, with total assets at year-end 2008 increasing 7.6% compared to 2007. The total Banking Network was composed of 1,511 banking offices at the end of 2008, an increase of 19 offices compared to 1,492 banking offices at December 31, 2007. The increase in offices was the result of a de novo branching strategy to expand BB&T’s presence in high growth markets and the acquisition of Haven Trust. Net income attributable to the Banking Network declined $588 million, or 35.9%, compared to 2007, primarily as a result of higher provision for loan loss expense. Comparing 2007 to 2006, net income in the Banking Network increased $86 million, or 5.5%.  

Net interest income for the Banking Network totaled $3.2 billion in 2008 compared to $3.4 billion in 2007. The decline in the net interest income was primarily due to lower interest income on loans due to the decline in the prime rate that began in late 2007 and continued through 2008. Net interest income earned for 2007 increased by $130 million, or 3.9%, compared to 2006. The increase in net interest income during 2007 was primarily a result of an increase of $210 million in the net funds transfer pricing (“FTP”) credit provided to the Banking Network during 2007, offset by a decrease of $80 million in net interest income from clients. The decline in the net interest income from clients in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to higher interest expense on deposits due to a shift by clients to higher cost products and growth in CDs.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $685 million in 2008 compared to 2007, reflecting the deterioration in the residential acquisition and development portfolio, as well as growth in outstanding loans. The economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $10 million, or 6.9%, from 2006 to 2007. The increase during 2007 primarily reflected loan growth.  

Noninterest income in the Banking Network increased $140 million, or 12.8%, during 2008, and $128 million, or 13.2% during 2007. The growth in noninterest income for 2008 and 2007 was primarily due to growth in overdraft fees, checkcard fees and other nondeposit fees and commissions. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reflected as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), increased $15 million, or 6.3%, compared to 2007, primarily due to higher referrals for mortgage lending. Referral fees increased $16 million, or 7.2%, compared to 2006, primarily due to higher referrals from the Financial Services segment. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Banking Network during 2008 increased $73 million, or 5.0%, compared to 2007. Comparing 2007 to 2006, noninterest expenses increased $70 million, or 5.0%, including additional costs related to the acquisition of Coastal. Allocated corporate expenses increased $112 million, or 19.0%, in 2008 primarily due to increased allocations for certain corporate overhead functions that were previously not allocated to the business units, and increases for loan administration expense, IT services and operations. The increase related to loan administration expense was the result in a change in the methodology for allocating these expenses between business segments. Comparing 2007 to 2006, allocated corporate expenses increased $60 million because of increased allocations of marketing and advertising expenses and other corporate support areas.  

74  

Table of Contents 

The provision for income taxes allocated to the Banking Network decreased $341 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily as a result of lower pretax income. Comparing 2007 to 2006, the provision for income taxes increased $48 million, or 5.5%, primarily as a result of higher pretax income.  

Total identifiable assets for the Banking Network increased $4.6 billion in 2008, or 7.6%, to a total of $65.4 billion, compared to an increase of $4.1 billion, or 7.2%, in 2007. The increase in 2008 included the acquisition of Haven Trust, while the 2007 increase included the acquisition of Coastal.  

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $16.4 billion in 2008, up 37.7% from $11.9 billion in 2007. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes portfolio loans on BB&T’s balance sheet and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $59.7 billion at year-end 2008 compared to $51.0 billion at December 31, 2007. Net income attributable to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased slightly in 2008, as strong growth in noninterest income was offset by an increase in the economic provision for loan loss. 2008 results in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment were also aided by the implementation of the Fair Value Option for loans held for sale on January 1, 2008.  

Net interest income for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment totaled $300 million in 2008, up 19.5% compared to $251 million in 2007. Net interest income in 2007 was up 1.6% compared to 2006. The increase in net interest income in 2008 and 2007 was primarily the result of growth in the held for investment loan portfolio, offset by higher funding costs.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses was $134 million for 2008, up significantly compared to 2007. The growth in the provision reflected higher losses in 2008 and the significant deterioration in residential real estate markets, especially in Florida, Georgia and metro Washington D.C.  

Noninterest income in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $104 million in 2008. This increase includes the impact of the implementation of the Fair Value Option for loans held for sale, which resulted in an increase of approximately $21 million in noninterest income when compared to 2007. The remaining variance included a $38 million increase in the net mortgage servicing rights valuation and growth in servicing fees. Noninterest income was up $11 million in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily reflecting higher gains from loan sales. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $20 million, or 31.3%, compared to 2007, reflecting higher salaries and wages and foreclosed property expense. Noninterest expense for 2007 was up $11 million, or 20.8%, during 2007, primarily reflecting higher personnel costs.  

Total identifiable assets for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $525 million, or 2.8%, from 2007 and $2.1 billion, or 12.6%, from 2007 to 2006, reflecting increases in mortgage loans due to growth in originations in 2008 and 2007 and improved loan retention due to historically slow prepayments in 2008 and 2007.  

Sales Finance  

Net income from the Sales Finance segment decreased $16 million, or 47.1%, in 2008 compared to 2007, reflecting higher provision for loan loss expenses. Net income for 2007 was up slightly compared to 2006.  

Net interest income from the Sales Finance segment decreased slightly during 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease in net interest income during 2008 included an increase of $25 million, or 6.6%, from clients, and an increase in the FTP charge of $27 million, or 10.5%. During 2007, net interest income increased $8 million, or 7.1%, compared to 2006. The decrease in net interest income during 2007 included an increase of $70 million, or 22.9%, from clients, and an increase in the FTP charge of $62 million, or 32.0%.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses was up 90.5% in 2008 after being flat in 2007. The increase in 2008 reflects higher loss rates and the current weak economic conditions.  

75  

Table of Contents 

The Sales Finance segment was assessed referral fees of $13 million in 2008 and 2007 to compensate the Banking Network for services. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Sales Finance segment increased 12.0% in 2008 after increasing $2 million, or 8.7%, during 2007. Allocated corporate expense increased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007 after increasing $2 million in 2007 compared to 2006.  

The provision for income taxes allocated to the Sales Finance segment during 2008 was down $9 million, mainly as a result of lower pretax income. During 2007, the provision for income taxes was also up slightly due to higher pretax income.  

Total identifiable assets for the Sales Finance segment increased $331 million, or 5.7%, compared to 2007 and $300 million, or 5.5%, from 2007 to 2006.  

Specialized Lending  

BB&T’s Specialized Lending segment continued to expand during 2008 primarily through internal growth. Net income from the Specialized Lending segment was $21 million for 2008, down 71.2% compared to 2007. The decline in net income in 2008 was primarily the result of a higher provision for credit losses, which more than offset the increase in net interest income and noninterest income. Net income in 2007 was down $9 million, or 11.0% compared to 2006. Net interest income totaled $501 million in 2008, an increase of 10.6% compared to 2007. Net interest income in 2008 consisted of $711 million in net interest income from clients less an FTP charge of $210 million. The growth in net interest income was due to growth in the lending portfolio. Comparing 2007 to 2006, net interest income increased $77 million, or 20.5%. Net interest income in 2007 consisted of $676 million of net interest income from clients less an FTP charge of $223 million. The growth in net interest income in 2007 was a result of growth in the lending portfolio, offset by higher funding costs. Average loans for the Specialized Lending segment increased 8.6% during 2008 compared to 2007.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses totaled $301 million in 2008, an increase of $107 million compared to 2007. Comparing 2007 to 2006 the economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $57 million, or 41.6%. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of the clients of Specialized Lending, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries.  

Noninterest income produced by the Specialized Lending segment totaled $116 million in 2008, an increase of $26 million, or 28.9%, compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 was largely attributable to growth in revenues from commercial mortgage banking activities. Comparing 2007 to 2006, noninterest income increased $16 million, or 21.6%. The increase during 2007 was primarily due to growth in revenues from operating leases and commercial mortgage banking activities. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment in 2008 totaled $243 million, an increase of $37 million, or 18.0%, compared to 2007, and allocated corporate expenses increased $13 million, or 52.0%. Comparing 2007 to 2006, noninterest expenses totaled $206 million, an increase of $43 million, or 26.4%, and allocated corporate expenses increased $5 million, or 25.0%, from 2006 to 2007. The increases in noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment and the allocated corporate expenses were due to a combination of internal growth and growth from acquisitions.  

The provision for income taxes allocated to the Specialized Lending segment decreased $31 million, or 68.9%, in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily as a result of lower pretax income. Comparing 2007 to 2006, the provision for income taxes decreased $3 million, or 6.3%, also a result of lower pretax income.  

Total identifiable assets for the Specialized Lending segment increased $1.0 billion, or 17.2%, from 2008 to 2007 primarily due to internal growth. Comparing 2007 to 2006, total identifiable assets increased $1.8 billion, or 48.2%, due to internal growth and growth from acquisitions.  

Insurance Services  

Net income from the Insurance Services segment declined $17 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Comparing 2007 to 2006, net income increased $36 million, or 40.4%. The 2007 results included a pre-tax gain of $19 million from the sale of an insurance agency operation.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Noninterest income produced by the Insurance Services segment totaled $907 million during 2008, an increase of $68 million, or 8.1%, compared to 2007. Internal growth combined with the expansion of BB&T’s insurance agency network and insurance brokerage operations through acquisitions during the last two years were responsible for the growth in noninterest income. Comparing 2007 to 2006, noninterest income increased $56 million, or 7.2%. The growth during 2007 includes the $19 million gain mentioned above. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $73 million or 11.7%, while allocated corporate expenses increased $14 million, or 50.0%. The overall increase in noninterest expenses within the Insurance Services segment during 2008 principally resulted from the continued expansion of the BB&T insurance agency network. Comparing 2007 to 2006, noninterest expenses and allocated corporate expenses increased slightly, reflecting strong expense control.  

The changes in the provision for income taxes allocated to the Insurance Services segment were largely consistent with changes in the levels of pretax income for the years 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006.  

Financial Services  

Net income from the Financial Services segment increased $31 million, or 43.7%, in 2008. This followed an increase of $9 million in 2007. The Financial Services segment had improved performance from its investment banking and brokerage operations and corporate banking initiative during 2008.  

Net interest income for the Financial Services segment totaled $76 million in 2008, an increase of $21 million, or 38.2%, compared to 2007. Comparing 2007 to 2006, net interest income increased $11 million, or 25.0%. The increase in net interest income during 2008 was largely a result of the Financial Services division focus on growing its corporate banking program, while the increase during 2007 was due to higher FTP credits received by the Financial Services segment.  

Noninterest income in the Financial Services segment in 2008 totaled $630 million, up $77 million, or 13.9%, compared to $553 million earned during 2007, which was a slight increase compared to 2006. The revenue increase in 2008 was partially due to strong revenues from investment banking and brokerage operations, as well as increased revenues from the sale of client derivatives. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues from trust and investment advisory services. Noninterest expenses incurred by Financial Services in 2008 increased $47 million compared to 2007, after increasing slightly in the prior year. The increase in noninterest expenses in 2008 was largely due to increased personnel costs.  

The provision for income taxes allocated to Financial Services increased $23 million in 2008 compared to 2007, while 2007 was flat compared to 2006. The increase in the provision for income taxes allocated to the Financial Services segment in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily a result of higher pretax income. While pretax income increased 9.2% in 2007 compared to 2006, the provision for income taxes was flat due to a higher level of tax exempt income earned in 2007. Total identifiable segment assets for Financial Services decreased to a total of $2.9 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $4.1 billion at year-end 2007, which were up from $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006. The fluctuations in assets within the Financial Services segment are largely related to the size of the trading portfolio.  

Treasury  

Net income from the Treasury segment was $313 million in 2008, up substantially from a loss of $86 million in 2007 and a loss of $48 million in 2006. Net income in the Treasury segment is subject to fluctuations based on the interest sensitivity of the Corporation’s balance sheet. The increase in 2008 largely reflects growth in interest income from a larger securities portfolio and lower funding costs.  

Net interest income for the Treasury segment was $293 million in 2008 compared to an expense of $292 million in 2007. Net interest income for 2008 consisted of $300 million of net interest income and $7 million of expense from the FTP charge. The improvement in net interest income was primarily due to lower funding costs and FTP credits paid on deposits and other funding sources. For 2007, net interest income for the Treasury segment consisted of $134 million of net interest expense and $158 million of expense from the FTP charge. The improvement in net interest income from external sources was primarily due to slower growth in funding costs   

77  

Table of Contents 

 compared to growth in interest income from investments, while the additional FTP charge resulted from higher credits paid on deposits and other funding sources.  

Noninterest income in the Treasury segment is primarily related to BOLI income. During 2008, noninterest income earned by the Treasury segment totaled $140 million, an increase of 26.1%, compared to $111 million earned during 2007. The increase in noninterest income during 2008 included certain securities gains that were retained in the Treasury segment, offset by a decrease from BOLI income due to valuation adjustments recorded in the 2008. For 2006, noninterest income within the Treasury segment totaled $117 million.  

The provision for income taxes allocated to the Treasury segment during 2008 was an expense of $104 million compared to a benefit of $106 million and $94 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The changes in the tax benefits allocated to the Treasury segment are a combination of changes in the level of pretax income and tax exempt income. Total identifiable assets for the Treasury segment increased $13.3 billion, or 55.1%, in 2008 compared to 2007, following a slight decrease in 2007 compared to 2006. As of December 31, 2008, total identifiable assets in the Treasury segment were $37.4 billion. The increase in assets largely reflects the initial deployment of capital related to the CPP.  

Fourth Quarter Results  

Net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $305 million, compared to $411 million for the comparable period of 2007. Net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $284 million. Diluted net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $.51 per common share compared to $.75 for the same period a year ago. Annualized returns on average assets and average common equity were .86% and 8.47%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to 1.24% and 12.89%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Results for the fourth quarter of 2008 include $66 million in after-tax securities gains, $39 million in after-tax other-than-temporary impairment charges and $17 million in net after tax gains related to a settlement with the IRS in connection with leveraged lease transactions.  

Net interest income amounted to $1.1 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008, an increase of 7.5% compared to $991 million for the same period of 2007. Noninterest income totaled $807 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, up 12.4% from $718 million earned during the fourth quarter of 2007. The growth in noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period of 2007 was driven by increases in mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage operations, net securities gains and insurance income. BB&T’s noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2008 totaled $1.0 billion, up 7.6% from the $942 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007.  

The fourth quarter 2008 provision for credit losses increased 187.0% to $528 million, compared to $184 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in the provision for credit losses reflects the deteriorating credit quality of the loan portfolio that has resulted from the distressed residential real estate markets and economic recession. The increase in the provision for credit losses also reflects higher net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007.  

The fourth quarter 2008 provision for income taxes totaled $25 million, a decrease of $147 million compared to $172 million for the same period of 2007. The provision for income taxes declined as a result of lower pre-tax income and a $60 million credit to income tax expense related to BB&T’s settlement with the IRS.  

The accompanying table, “Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited,” presents condensed information relating to quarterly periods in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.  

78  

Table of Contents 

Table 29  

Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Fourth quarter 2008 and 2007, respectively include a credit of $60 million and a credit of $7 million to the provision for income taxes related to leveraged leases.  

 (2)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

79  

Table of Contents 

SIX YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY AND SELECTED RATIOS  

(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

80  

Table of Contents 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. BB&T’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the Corporation’s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of BB&T’s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Corporation’s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.  

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Corporation conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the “COSO” criteria. Based on this evaluation under the “COSO” criteria, management concluded that the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Corporation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in enabling the Corporation to record, process, summarize and report, in a timely manner, the information that the Corporation is required to disclose in its Exchange Act reports.  

There was no change in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 that has materially affected or is likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.  

The effectiveness of the internal control structure over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included on page 82, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.  

81  

Table of Contents 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:  

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page xx. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Charlotte, North Carolina  

February 27, 2009  

82  

Table of Contents 

Item 1. Financial Statements  

BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS