Item 1A. Risk Factors

General

References to "EQR" mean Equity Residential, a Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT"), and references to "ERPOP" mean ERP Operating Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership. Unless otherwise indicated, when used in this section, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP and the term “Operating Partnership” means collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP. This Item 1A. includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included in Item 7.

The occurrence of the events discussed in the following risk factors could adversely affect, possibly in a material manner, our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest or preferred shares of beneficial interest (which we refer to collectively as “Shares”), Preference Units, OP Units, Long-Term Incentive Plan Units (“LTIP Units”) and our public unsecured debt. In this section, we refer to the Shares, preference units, OP Units, LTIP Units and public unsecured debt together as our “securities” and the investors who own Shares/Units, OP/LTIP Units and public unsecured debt as our “security holders”.

Our Performance and Securities Value are Subject to Risks Associated with the Real Estate Industry

General

Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk and are relatively illiquid. Numerous factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our properties and the ability to realize that value. These factors include changes in the global, national, regional and local economic climates, local conditions such as an oversupply of multifamily properties or a reduction in demand for our multifamily properties, the attractiveness of our properties to residents, competition from other multifamily properties and single family homes and changes in market rental rates. Our performance also depends on our ability to collect rent from residents and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, all of which could increase over time. Sources of labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property.

We May Not Have Sufficient Cash Flows From Operations After Capital Expenditures to Cover Our Distributions and Our Dividend Policy May Lead to Quicker Dividend Reductions

We generally consider our cash flows provided by operating activities after capital expenditures to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payment of distributions to our security holders. However, there may be times when we experience shortfalls in our coverage of distributions, which may cause us to consider reducing our distributions and/or using the proceeds 

11
from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, our financial condition may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain our current distribution levels. While our dividend policy makes it less likely we will over distribute, it will also lead to a dividend reduction more quickly than a fixed dividend policy should operating results deteriorate. See Item 7 for additional discussion regarding our dividend policy.

We May Be Unable to Renew Leases or Relet Apartment Units as Leases Expire

When our residents decide to leave our apartments, whether because they decide not to renew their leases or they leave prior to their lease expiration date, we may not be able to relet their apartment units. Even if the residents do renew or we can relet the apartment units, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the apartment units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. If residents do not experience increases in their income, we may be unable to increase rent and/or delinquencies may increase. Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, rental housing subsidized by the government, other government programs that favor single family rental housing or owner occupied housing over multifamily rental housing, slow or negative employment growth and household formation, the availability of low interest mortgages for single family home buyers, changes in social preferences and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control. In addition, various state and local municipalities are considering and may continue to consider rent control legislation which could limit our ability to raise rents. Finally, the federal government's policies, many of which may encourage home ownership, can increase competition and possibly limit our ability to raise rents. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service debt and make distributions to security holders could be reduced.

New Acquisitions and/or Development Projects May Fail to Perform as Expected and Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties

We intend to actively acquire and/or develop multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease up. We may be unable to lease up these apartment properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields due to lower occupancy and rates as well as higher than expected concessions. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position or to complete a development property. Additionally, we expect that other real estate investors with capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development and acquisition efforts. This competition (or lack thereof) may increase (or depress) prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios, that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. The total number of apartment units under development, costs of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation.

In connection with such government regulation, we may incur liability if our properties are not constructed and operated in compliance with the accessibility provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act or other federal, state or local requirements. Noncompliance could result in fines, subject us to lawsuits and require us to remediate or repair the noncompliance.

Risks Involved in Real Estate Activity Through Joint Ventures

We have in the past and may in the future develop and acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. Joint venture investments involve risks, including the possibility that our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses; that our partners might at any time have business or economic goals which are inconsistent with ours; and that our partners may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. At times we have entered into agreements providing for joint and several liability with our partners. Frequently, we and our partners may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. In some instances, joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. Further, the Company's joint venture partners may experience financial distress, including bankruptcy, and to the extent they do not meet their obligations to us or our joint ventures with them, we may be adversely 

12
affected. 

Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, We May Not Be Able to Sell Properties When Appropriate

Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to reconfigure our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. This inability to reallocate our capital promptly could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders.

The Value of Investment Securities Could Result In Losses to the Company

From time to time, the Company holds investment securities and/or cash investments that have various levels of repayment and liquidity risk, including government obligations and bond funds, money market funds or bank deposits. On occasion we also may purchase securities of companies in our own industry as a means to invest funds. There may be times when we experience declines in the value of these investment securities, which may result in losses to the Company and our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Sometimes the cash we deposit at a bank substantially exceeds the FDIC insurance limit or we invest cash in money market or similar type funds with investment management institutions resulting in risk to the Company of loss of funds if these banks or institutions fail.

Changes in Market Conditions and Volatility of Share Prices Could Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common Shares 

The stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, on which we list our Common Shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our Common Shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in our Common Shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The market price of our Common Shares may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including but not limited to the following: 

•general market and economic conditions;

•actual or anticipated variations in our guidance, quarterly operating results or dividends;

•changes in our funds from operations, normalized funds from operations or earnings estimates;

•difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or refinance debt;

•large portfolio acquisitions or dispositions; 

•decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations;

•rising crime rates in markets where our increasingly urban portfolio is concentrated;

•a change in analyst ratings;

•adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;

•governmental regulatory action, including changes or proposed changes to the mandates of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, and changes in tax laws;

•the issuance of additional Common Shares, or the perception that such issuances might occur, including under EQR's ATM program; and

•the resale of substantial amounts of our common shares, or the anticipation of the resale of such shares, by large holders of our securities. 

Changes in Laws and Litigation Risk Could Affect Our Business

We are generally not able to pass through to our residents under existing leases any real estate or other federal, state or local taxes. Consequently, any such tax increases may adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to make distributions to our security holders.

We may become involved in legal proceedings, including but not limited to, proceedings related to consumer, shareholder, employment, environmental, development, condominium conversion, tort and commercial legal issues that, if decided adversely to or settled by us, could result in liability material to our financial condition or results of operations.

13
Any Weaknesses Identified in Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Share Price 

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our share price. 

Environmental Problems Are Possible and Can Be Costly

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site.

Substantially all of our properties have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consulting companies. While these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, there can be no assurance that we will not incur such liabilities in the future.

There have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. As some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements, insurance carriers have reacted by excluding mold-related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates. While we have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our properties as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold to minimize any impact mold might have on our residents or the property, should mold become an issue in the future, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

We cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any of our properties.

Climate Change

To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature, including destruction of our properties, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue.

Insurance Policy Deductibles, Exclusions and Counterparties

As of December 31, 2012, the Company's property insurance policy provides for a per occurrence deductible of $250,000 and self-insured retention of $5.0 million per occurrence, subject to a maximum annual aggregate self-insured retention of $7.5 million, with approximately 80% of any excess losses being covered by insurance. Any earthquake and named windstorm losses in critical areas are subject to a deductible of 5% of the values of the buildings involved in the losses and are not subject to the aggregate self-insured retention. The Company's general liability and worker's compensation policies at December 31, 2012 provide for a $2.0 million and $1.0 million per occurrence deductible, respectively. These higher deductible and self-insured retention amounts do expose the Company to greater potential uninsured losses, but management has reviewed its claims history over the years and believes the savings in insurance premium expense justify this potential increased exposure over the long-term. However, the potential impact of climate change and increased severe weather could cause a significant increase in insurance premiums and 

14
deductibles, particularly for our coastal properties, or a decrease in the availability of coverage, either of which could expose the Company to even greater uninsured losses which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.

As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, property insurance carriers created exclusions for losses from terrorism from our “all risk” property insurance policies. As of December 31, 2012, under a separate terrorism insurance policy, the Company was insured for $500.0 million in terrorism insurance coverage, with a $100,000 deductible. This coverage excludes losses from nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. In the event of a terrorist attack impacting one or more of our properties, we could lose the revenues from the property, our capital investment in the property and possibly face liability claims from residents or others suffering injuries or losses. The Company has become more susceptible to large losses as it has transformed its portfolio, becoming more concentrated in fewer, more valuable assets over a smaller geographical footprint.

As of December 31, 2012, the Company's cyber liability insurance policy provides for a per occurrence deductible of $250,000 and a $5.0 million general limit. Cyber liability insurance generally covers costs associated with the wrongful release, through inadvertent breach or network attack of personally identifiable information such as social security or credit card numbers. This cyber policy would cover the cost of victim notification, credit monitoring and other crisis response expenses.

The Company relies on third party insurance providers for its property, general liability and worker's compensation insurance. While there has yet to be any non-performance by these major insurance providers, should any of them experience liquidity issues or other financial distress, it could negatively impact the Company. In addition, the Company annually assesses its insurance needs based on the cost of coverage and other factors. We may choose to self insure a greater portion of this risk in the future or may choose to have higher deductibles or lesser policy terms.

Non-Performance by Our Operating Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Our Performance

We have relationships with and, from time to time, we execute transactions with or receive services from many counterparties. As a result, defaults by counterparties could result in services not being provided, or volatility in the financial markets could affect counterparties' ability to complete transactions with us as intended, both of which could result in disruptions to our operations that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Debt Financing and Preferred Shares/Preference Units Could Adversely Affect Our Performance

General

Please refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the Company's total debt and unsecured debt summaries as of December 31, 2012.

In addition to debt, we have a liquidation value of $50.0 million of outstanding preferred shares of beneficial interest/preference units with a dividend preference of 8.29% per annum as of December 31, 2012. Our use of debt and preferred equity financing creates certain risks, including the following:

Disruptions in the Financial Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Obtain Debt Financing and Impact our Acquisitions and Dispositions

Dislocations and liquidity disruptions in capital and credit markets could impact liquidity in the debt markets, resulting in financing terms that are less attractive to us and/or the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Should the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds again become limited, or be available only on unattractive terms, we will incur increased costs associated with issuing debt instruments. In addition, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or precluded by these or other factors at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which would adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. Uncertainty in the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and make it more difficult or not possible for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Potential continued disruptions in the financial markets could also have other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy generally and may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly and/or to decline.

Potential Reforms to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Could Adversely Affect Our Performance

There is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the "Government Sponsored 

15
Enterprises" or "GSEs"). Through their lender originator networks, the GSEs are significant lenders both to the Company and to buyers of the Company's properties. Should the GSEs have their mandates changed or reduced, materially change their lending terms, lose key personnel, be disbanded or reorganized by the government or otherwise discontinue providing liquidity to our sector, it would significantly reduce our access to secured debt capital and/or increase borrowing costs and would significantly reduce our sales of assets and/or the values realized upon sale. Disruptions in the floating rate tax-exempt bond market (where interest rates reset weekly) and in the credit market's perception of the GSEs, which guarantee and provide liquidity for many of these bonds, have been experienced in the past and may be experienced in the future and could result in an increase in interest rates on these debt obligations. These bonds could also be put to our consolidated subsidiaries if the GSEs fail to satisfy their guaranty obligations. While this obligation is in almost all cases non-recourse to us, this could cause the Company to have to repay these obligations on short notice or risk foreclosure actions on the collateralized assets. 

Non-Performance by Our Financial Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Our Performance

Although we have not experienced any material counterparty non-performance, disruptions in financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our counterparties to perform on their contractual obligations. There are multiple financial institutions that are individually committed to lend us varying amounts as part of our revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility. Should any of these institutions fail to fund their committed amounts when contractually required, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Should several of these institutions fail to fund, we could experience significant financial distress. 

The Company also has developed assets with joint venture partners which were financed by financial institutions that have experienced varying degrees of distress in the past and could experience similar distress as economic conditions change. If one or more of these lenders fail to fund when contractually required, the Company or its joint venture partner may be unable to complete construction of its development properties. 

A Significant Downgrade in Our Credit Ratings Could Adversely Affect Our Performance

A significant downgrade in our credit ratings, while not affecting our ability to draw proceeds under the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility, would cause our borrowing costs to increase under the facilities and impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt, or otherwise limit our access to capital. In addition, a downgrade below investment grade would require us to post cash collateral and/or letters of credit in favor of some of our secured lenders to cover our self-insured property and liability insurance deductibles or to obtain lower deductible insurance compliant with the lenders' requirements at the lower ratings level.

Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition

In the future, our cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest or to pay distributions on our securities at expected levels.

We may not be able to refinance existing debt, including joint venture indebtedness (which in virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if we can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our operating cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. As a result, certain of our other debt may cross default, we may be forced to postpone capital expenditures necessary for the maintenance of our properties, we may have to dispose of one or more properties on terms that would otherwise be unacceptable to us or we may be forced to allow the mortgage holder to foreclose on a property. Foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Please refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the Company's debt maturity schedule as of December 31, 2012.

Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect the Company's Financial Condition

The mortgages on our properties may contain customary negative covenants that, among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property and to reduce or change insurance coverage. In addition, our unsecured credit facilities contain certain restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur debt. The indentures under which a substantial portion of our unsecured debt was issued also contain certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things, maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured and 

16
unsecured debt (including acquisition financing), and to sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facilities and indentures are cross-defaulted and also contain cross default provisions with other material debt. While the Company believes it was in compliance with its unsecured public debt covenants for both the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, should it fall out of compliance, it would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Some of the properties were financed with tax-exempt bonds or otherwise contain certain restrictive covenants or deed restrictions, including affordability requirements. The Company, and from time to time its consultants, monitor compliance with the restrictive covenants and deed restrictions that affect these properties. If these compliance requirements restrict our ability to increase our rental rates to low or moderate-income residents, or eligible/qualified residents, then our income from these properties may be limited. While we generally believe that the interest rate benefit attendant to properties with tax-exempt bonds more than outweighs any loss of income due to restrictive covenants or deed restrictions, this may not always be the case. Some of these requirements are complex and our failure to comply with them may subject us to material fines or liabilities.

Our Degree of Leverage Could Limit Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing

Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to security holders. For example, the degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, making us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy in general. Our consolidated debt-to-total market capitalization ratio was 30.7% as of December 31, 2012. In addition, our most restrictive unsecured public debt covenants are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Rising Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow

Advances under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods, plus a spread dependent upon the Operating Partnership's credit rating, or based upon bids received from the lending group. Certain public issuances of our senior unsecured debt instruments may also, from time to time, bear interest at floating rates. We may also borrow additional money with variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates could adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to security holders.

Derivatives and Hedging Activity Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow

In the normal course of business, we use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility on debt instruments, including hedging for future debt issuances. At other times we may utilize derivatives to increase our exposure to floating interest rates. We may also use derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign exchange rates or manage commodity prices in the daily operations of our business. There can be no assurance that these hedging arrangements will have the desired beneficial impact. These arrangements, which can include a number of counterparties, may expose us to additional risks, including failure of any of our counterparties to perform under these contracts, and may involve extensive costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate them. No strategy can completely insulate us from the risks associated with interest rate, foreign exchange or commodity pricing fluctuations.

We Depend on Our Key Personnel

We depend on the efforts of the Chairman of our Board of Trustees, Samuel Zell, and our executive officers, particularly David J. Neithercut, our President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). If they resign or otherwise cease to be employed by us, our operations could be temporarily adversely affected. Mr. Zell has entered into retirement benefit and noncompetition agreements with the Company.

17
Control and Influence by Significant Security Holders Could Be Exercised in a Manner Adverse to Other Security Holders

The consent of certain affiliates of Mr. Zell is required for certain amendments to the Sixth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership (the “Partnership Agreement”). As a result of their security ownership and rights concerning amendments to the Partnership Agreement, the security holders referred to herein may have influence over the Company. Although to the Company's knowledge these security holders have not agreed to act together on any matter, they would be in a position to exercise even more influence over the Company's affairs if they were to act together in the future. This influence could conceivably be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other security holders. For additional information regarding the security ownership of our trustees, including Mr. Zell, and our executive officers, see Equity Residential's definitive proxy statement.

Shareholders' Ability to Effect Changes in Control of the Company is Limited

Provisions of Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes in Control

Certain provisions of our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transactions that could provide the security holders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their securities or which might otherwise be in the best interest of our security holders. This includes the 5% Ownership Limit described below. While our existing preferred shares/preference units do not have these provisions, any future series of preferred shares/preference units may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of our security holders. Our Bylaws require certain information to be provided by any security holder, or persons acting in concert with such security holder, who proposes business or a nominee at an annual meeting of shareholders, including disclosure of information related to hedging activities and investment strategies with respect to our securities. These requirements could delay or prevent a change in control or other transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of our security holders.

We Have a Share Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes

To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding Shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any year. To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification, our Declaration of Trust, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits ownership by any single shareholder of more than 5% of the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding class of common or preferred shares. We refer to this restriction as the “Ownership Limit.” Absent any exemption or waiver granted by our Board of Trustees, securities acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the security holder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. A transfer of Shares may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our security holders' ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their Shares. To reduce the ability of the Board to use the Ownership Limit as an anti-takeover device, the Company's Ownership Limit requires, rather than permits, the Board to grant a waiver of the Ownership Limit if the individual seeking a waiver demonstrates that such ownership would not jeopardize the Company's status as a REIT.

Our Preferred Shares May Affect Changes in Control

Our Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to issue up to 100 million preferred shares, and to establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert into common shares) of any preferred shares issued. The Board of Trustees may use its powers to issue preferred shares and to set the terms of such securities to delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if a change in control were in the interest of security holders.

Inapplicability of Maryland Law Limiting Certain Changes in Control

Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to real estate investment trusts prohibit “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of outstanding securities, or with an affiliate who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company's outstanding voting securities (an “Interested Shareholder”), or with an affiliate of an Interested Shareholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an Interested Shareholder must be approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, holders of common shares receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its common shares. As permitted by Maryland law, however, the Board of Trustees of the Company has opted out 

18
of these restrictions with respect to any business combination involving Mr. Zell and certain of his affiliates and persons acting in concert with them. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to a business combination involving us and/or any of them. Such business combinations may not be in the best interest of our security holders.

The Archstone transaction is the largest such transaction in the Company's history and exposes us to significant additional risk.

We plan to fund a portion of the cash purchase price of the Archstone transaction as well as repay indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with the Archstone transaction with capital raised through significant dispositions of assets. If we are unable to consummate such dispositions in a timely manner, on attractive terms, or at all, we will likely have to incur greater indebtedness and/or issue additional equity securities. 

We currently expect to finance a portion of the cash purchase price of the Archstone transaction and to ultimately refinance indebtedness assumed or incurred in connection with the Archstone transaction with proceeds generated from the disposition of certain Archstone assets and of our assets that we believe are not consistent with our ongoing business strategy or that may be in markets in which we intend to reduce our current presence. The amount of such proposed dispositions is significant. We can provide no assurance that we will in fact be able to consummate such dispositions at all, at a time necessary to apply the proceeds to the Archstone transaction or the refinancing of debt, or at prices that we would otherwise expect to achieve. Factors that could limit our ability to successfully dispose of assets include:

•the possible lack of financing available to potential buyers, in particular if prevailing interest rates rise or if the GSEs increase their interest rates on their lending, make their underwriting criteria more restrictive, or if the lending activities of the GSEs are curtailed or ultimately terminated;

•our operational ability to successfully execute a disposition plan that is more significant than any disposition plan that we have previously executed;

•other sellers marketing competing properties; and

•the fact that potential purchasers will perceive that we are more likely to sell on less favorable terms to us due to the Archstone transaction and our related financing needs.

Failure to timely achieve a material portion of our anticipated dispositions would likely require us to incur greater indebtedness to fund the Archstone transaction or seek other methods to refinance the debt incurred or assumed in connection with the Archstone transaction, which involves the risk described herein, or issue more equity securities, which is subject to execution and pricing risk. The failure to successfully execute a material portion of our disposition plan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and distributions to our shareholders.

In addition, we plan to defer the taxable gain on certain of our dispositions as exchanges made in connection with the Archstone transaction pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. The requirements for qualification under Section 1031 are technical and complex. To the extent we are unable to defer such gains to the extent anticipated, the benefits of such dispositions will be reduced, and we could recognize significant taxable gains as a result of such dispositions, which would require us to make distributions in excess of our expectations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

There can be no assurance that the Archstone transaction will be consummated in accordance with the anticipated timing or at all.

Although we expect to close the Archstone transaction in the first quarter of 2013, there can be no assurance that the Archstone transaction will be completed in accordance with the anticipated timing or at all. The purchase agreement contains closing conditions, which may not be satisfied or waived, in which case the Company and AVB and/or Lehman will not be obligated to complete the Archstone transaction. In addition, under circumstances specified in the purchase agreement, the Company and AVB or Lehman may terminate the purchase agreement.

We expect to incur significant additional indebtedness, including significant floating rate debt and significant amounts of indebtedness with maturity dates in 2014, in order to consummate the Archstone transaction, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and distributions to our shareholders.

We may raise additional funds to finance our portion of the Archstone transaction cash purchase price through one or more methods, including, without limitation, from borrowings under our revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility, proceeds from asset dispositions, bank term debt or unsecured debt or equity offerings. Depending on market conditions, we may increase or decrease the anticipated sources of debt financing. Our obligations under the purchase agreement are not conditioned upon the consummation of any financing transactions.

19
In connection with the Archstone transaction, we will also assume significant indebtedness, including a significant amount of secured mortgage indebtedness. Taking into account our existing indebtedness, the assumption of indebtedness in the Archstone transaction, and possible financing plans to fund our portion of the Archstone transaction cash purchase price, our consolidated indebtedness will materially increase after giving effect to the Archstone transaction. We may not be able to repay or otherwise refinance such indebtedness when it becomes due and payable, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If we default under a mortgage loan, we may lose the properties securing these loans.

Further, because a significant amount of the assets we expect to acquire from Archstone are secured by mortgage indebtedness, and because we intend to dispose of significant amounts of our properties that are currently unencumbered, our unencumbered asset pool will be reduced significantly. This may increase our costs of raising additional unsecured indebtedness and could significantly limit our financial flexibility.

In addition, a significant amount of the indebtedness we expect to incur and assume in connection with the Archstone transaction will have floating interest rates rather than fixed interest rates or matures in 2014. To the extent that interest rates increase and we are unable to successfully hedge against rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase substantially.

Our indebtedness could have additional significant adverse consequences on our business, such as:

•having our long-term debt downgraded or put on a watch list by one or more rating agencies;

•requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes and reduce cash for distributions;

•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes;

•increasing our exposure to floating interest rates;

•limiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;

•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or exploiting business opportunities;

•restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries' existing and future indebtedness, including, in the case of certain indebtedness of subsidiaries, certain covenants that restrict the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us;

•exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results;

•increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions;

•limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our tenants' and borrowers' industries; and

•substantial prepayment penalties as we refinance this debt. 

The impact of any of the potential adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and distributions to our shareholders.

The Archstone transaction is expected to be dilutive initially to our earnings and earnings per share.

As a result of the issuance of our common shares to Lehman as part of the consideration paid in the Archstone transaction and the sale of our Common Shares in 2012 to finance the Archstone transaction, as well as a result of the expected dispositions necessary to enable us to finance the Archstone transaction, the Archstone transaction is expected to be dilutive to our operating results, both on an absolute basis and on a per share basis. However, the amount of any dilution will depend on a number of factors, including the pace of our planned asset sales, as discussed above and the ultimate mix of sources used to finance the Archstone transaction. For example, if our disposition plan occurs at a faster pace than anticipated, as we currently expect, such dispositions will result in more dilution to our revenues, net income, NOI, funds from operations and normalized funds from operations.

20
We will incur substantial expenses and payments even if the Archstone transaction is not completed.

We have incurred substantial legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs and our management has devoted considerable time and effort in connection with the Archstone transaction. If the Archstone transaction is not completed, we will bear certain fees and expenses associated with the Archstone transaction without realizing the benefits of the Archstone transaction. The fees and expenses may be significant and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

The purchase agreement provides for a break-up fee payable by the Company and AVB of $800.0 million if the purchase agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including as a result of a breach by the Company and AVB of any covenant or agreement under the purchase agreement. Any payment of the break-up fees would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our liquidity.

Our obligations under the purchase agreement entered into in the Archstone transaction are joint and several with AVB. The failure of AVB to perform its obligations could cause the purchase agreement to be terminated and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Although we have agreed to purchase approximately 60% of the Archstone assets in the Archstone transaction and AVB has agreed to acquire approximately 40% of the Archstone assets, our obligations under the purchase agreement are joint and several with AVB. If AVB determines not to consummate the Archstone transaction, we do not have the right to consummate the transaction alone. In addition, although we expect to be liable only for our pro rata share of any break-up fee or other obligations arising under the purchase agreement (approximately 60%) pursuant to arrangements with AVB, in the event AVB fails to pay its pro rata share of any such obligations, we will be responsible for paying 100% of such obligations. As a result, the failure of AVB to perform its obligations under the purchase agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and distributions to our shareholders.

Several of the assets we expect to acquire in the Archstone transaction are subject to tax protection agreements, which could limit our flexibility with respect to our ownership of such assets.

Several of the assets we expect to acquire in the Archstone transaction were contributed to Archstone subject to various agreements limiting the ability of the owner of the property to take actions that would trigger income tax liability for the contributing owner of the property, including a taxable disposition of the property. In addition, we will also be required to maintain a certain amount of qualified nonrecourse financing on the tax protected properties during their respective restricted periods. Our obligations relating to the tax protected properties may affect the way in which we conduct our business, including whether, when and under what circumstances we sell properties or interests therein and the timing and nature of our financings and refinancing transactions. As a result, we may not be able to dispose of or refinance the tax protected properties when to do so may have otherwise been favorable to us and our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our business and the market price of our Common Shares may be adversely affected if the Archstone transaction is not completed.

The Archstone transaction is subject to customary and other closing conditions. If the Archstone transaction is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Shares, including:

•our management's attention may be diverted from our day-to-day business and our employees and our relationships with customers may be disrupted as a result of efforts relating to attempting to consummate the Archstone transaction;

•the market price of our Common Shares may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Archstone transaction will be completed;

•we must pay certain costs related to the Archstone transaction, such as legal and accounting fees and expenses, regardless of whether the Archstone transaction is consummated; and

•we would not realize the benefits we expect to realize from consummating the Archstone transaction.

The intended benefits of the Archstone transaction may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial conditions, the market price of our Common Shares and our distributions to our shareholders.

We may be subject to additional risks and may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Archstone transaction if the transaction is consummated. Upon completion of the Archstone transaction, we will need to integrate the properties and 

21
other assets we acquire from Archstone (the "Archstone Portfolio") with our existing operations. The Archstone transaction represents the largest acquisition by dollar amount of a property portfolio ever attempted by us. We may not be able to accomplish the integration of the Archstone Portfolio smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs. The diversion of our management's attention from our current operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Archstone transaction and could adversely affect our business and the price of our Common Shares. Additional risks include, among others:

•inability to successfully integrate the operations or information technology of the acquired company, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe or at all;

•inability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees;

•increased costs or increases in taxable income due to restructuring or other steps required in connection with the integration of the Archstone Portfolio;

•projections of estimated future revenues, cost savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process might be inaccurate;

•the value of acquired assets or the market price of our Common Shares may decline;

•the impact of the Archstone Portfolio on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;

•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities, including but not limited to, an investment in a portfolio of assets in Germany;

•diversion of our management's attention away from other business concerns;

•exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities or litigation relating to the Archstone Portfolio; and

•potential underinsured losses on the Archstone Portfolio.

We cannot assure you that we would be able to integrate the Archstone Portfolio without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Failure to realize the intended benefits of the Archstone transaction could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, the market price of our Common Shares and our distributions to our shareholders.

We will increase our concentration of properties in certain core markets as a result of the Archstone transaction, which could have an adverse effect on our operations if a particular market is adversely affected by economic or other conditions.

As a result of the Archstone transaction, we will increase our concentration of properties in certain core markets as a result of our strategy to reposition our portfolio from low barrier to entry/non-core markets to high barrier to entry/core markets. If any one or more of such core markets, such as Washington D.C., Southern California, New York or San Francisco, is adversely affected by local or regional economic conditions (such as business layoffs, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) or local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of or reduced demand for multifamily properties), such conditions may have an increased adverse impact on our results of operations than if our portfolio was more geographically diverse.

Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major decisions, our reliance on our joint venture partners' financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.

A portion of the assets we are acquiring in the Archstone transaction are being acquired through joint ventures with AVB that neither we nor AVB will control solely. Joint ventures, including our proposed joint ventures with AVB, involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:

•We may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property;

•Our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;

•Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted without prior consent of our joint venture partners;

22
•Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;

•Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;

•We may disagree with our joint venture partners about decisions affecting a property or the joint venture, which could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and

•We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.

Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate and recognize attractive returns on our joint venture investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and distributions to our shareholders.

Shares eligible for future resale by Lehman may depress our share price.

We have agreed to issue 34,468,085 of our Common Shares to Lehman in connection with the Archstone transaction. We have agreed to enter into a registration rights agreement at the closing of the Archstone transaction to cover resales of such shares. The resale of substantial amounts of our Common Shares by Lehman in the public markets, or even the anticipation of the resale of such shares, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Shares. Such an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Shares would make it more difficult for us to sell our shares in the future at prices which we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions.

The inability of Lehman to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us under the purchase agreement could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

In addition to certain indemnification obligations of each party to the purchase agreement relating to breaches of fundamental representations and warranties and breaches of covenants and certain other specified matters, we have negotiated as a term in the purchase agreement that Lehman retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. These third-party claims and other liabilities include, without limitation, costs associated with various litigation matters. Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in September 2008 and is currently in the process of post-petition liquidation. If Lehman completes its liquidation prior to the termination of their indemnity obligations to us under the purchase agreement, or otherwise distributes substantially all of its assets to its creditors prior to such time, Lehman may not be able to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the purchase agreement. The failure of Lehman to satisfy such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, we expect that certain obligations of Lehman to indemnify us will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period (generally no more than three years following the closing). The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period, or the failure of Lehman to satisfy its indemnification obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Our Success as a REIT Is Dependent on Compliance with Federal Income Tax Requirements

Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to Our Security Holders

We believe that we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes since our taxable year ended December 31, 1992 based, in part, upon opinions of tax counsel received whenever we have issued equity securities or engaged in significant merger transactions. We plan to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that we have qualified or will qualify in the future as a REIT. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, our gross income must generally come from rental and other real estate or passive related sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to security holders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income excluding net capital gains. The fact that we hold our assets through the Operating Partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status; however, the REIT qualification rules permit REITs in certain circumstances to pay a monetary penalty for inadvertent mistakes rather than lose REIT status. There is also risk that Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and 

23
the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT. We do not believe, however, that any pending or proposed tax law changes would jeopardize our REIT status. 

If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified from taxation as a REIT for four years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes. We therefore would have less money available for investments or for distributions to security holders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to make any distributions to security holders. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we are and will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. In addition, various business activities which generate income that is not qualifying income for a REIT are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries and will be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent they generate taxable income.

We Could Be Disqualified as a REIT or Have to Pay Taxes if Our Merger Partners Did Not Qualify as REITs

If any of our prior merger partners had failed to qualify as a REIT throughout the duration of their existence, then they might have had undistributed “Subchapter C corporation earnings and profits” at the time of their merger with us. If that was the case and we did not distribute those earnings and profits prior to the end of the year in which the merger took place, we might not qualify as a REIT. We believe, based in part upon opinions of legal counsel received pursuant to the terms of our merger agreements as well as our own investigations, among other things, that each of our prior merger partners qualified as a REIT and that, in any event, none of them had any undistributed “Subchapter C corporation earnings and profits” at the time of their merger with us. If any of our prior merger partners failed to qualify as a REIT, an additional concern would be that they could have been required to recognize taxable gain at the time they merged with us. We would be liable for the tax on such gain. We also could have to pay corporate income tax on any gain existing at the time of the applicable merger on assets acquired in the merger if the assets are sold within ten years of the merger.

 Compliance with REIT Distribution Requirements May Affect Our Financial Condition

Distribution Requirements May Increase the Indebtedness of the Company

We may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances, to accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned but not yet received. In such event, or upon our repayment of principal on debt, we could have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of a REIT. Accordingly, we could be required to borrow funds or liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet these distribution requirements.

Tax Elections Regarding Distributions May Impact Future Liquidity of the Company

During 2008 and 2009, we did make, and under certain circumstances may consider making again in the future, a tax election to treat future distributions to shareholders as distributions in the current year. This election, which is provided for in the Code, may allow us to avoid increasing our dividends or paying additional income taxes in the current year. However, this could result in a constraint on our ability to decrease our dividends in future years without creating risk of either violating the REIT distribution requirements or generating additional income tax liability.

Federal Income Tax Considerations

General

The following discussion summarizes the federal income tax considerations material to a holder of common shares. It is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations. For example, it does not give a detailed discussion of any state, local or foreign tax considerations. The following discussion also does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to prospective shareholders in light of their particular circumstances. Moreover, it does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to shareholders who are subject to special treatment under the tax laws, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, foreign corporations, persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States and persons who own shares through a partnership or other entity treated as a flow-through entity for federal income tax purposes.

The specific tax attributes of a particular shareholder could have a material impact on the tax considerations associated with the purchase, ownership and disposition of common shares. Therefore, it is essential that each prospective shareholder consult 

24
with his or her own tax advisors with regard to the application of the federal income tax laws to the shareholder's personal tax situation, as well as any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.

The information in this section is based on the current Internal Revenue Code, current, temporary and proposed Treasury regulations, the legislative history of the Internal Revenue Code, current administrative interpretations and practices of the Internal Revenue Service, including its practices and policies as set forth in private letter rulings, which are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, and existing court decisions. Future legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations and court decisions could change current law or adversely affect existing interpretations of current law. Any change could apply retroactively. Thus, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could challenge the statements in this discussion, which do not bind the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and that a court could agree with the Internal Revenue Service.

Our Taxation

We elected REIT status beginning with the year that ended December 31, 1992. In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that we distribute to our shareholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation that applies to most corporations, which pay a tax on their income and then distribute dividends to shareholders who are in turn taxed on the amount they receive. We elected taxable REIT subsidiary status for certain of our corporate subsidiaries, primarily those engaged in condominium conversion and sale activities. As a result, we will be subject to federal income taxes for activities performed by our taxable REIT subsidiaries.

We will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates upon our REIT taxable income or capital gains that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. We could also be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our items of tax preference. In addition, any net income from “prohibited transactions” (i.e., dispositions of property, other than property held by a taxable REIT subsidiary, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business) will be subject to a 100% tax. We could also be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain payments received from or on certain expenses deducted by a taxable REIT subsidiary if any such transaction is not respected by the Internal Revenue Service. If we fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test (described below) but have maintained our qualification as a REIT because we satisfied certain other requirements, we will still generally be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the taxable income attributable to the gross income that caused the income test failure. If we fail to satisfy any of the REIT asset tests (described below) by more than a de minimis amount, due to reasonable cause, and we nonetheless maintain our REIT qualification because of specified cure provisions, we will be required to pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest marginal corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets. If we fail to satisfy any provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT (other than a violation of the REIT gross income or asset tests described below) and the violation is due to reasonable cause, we may retain our REIT qualification but we will be required to pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure. Moreover, we may be subject to taxes in certain situations and on certain transactions that we do not presently contemplate.

We believe that we have qualified as a REIT for all of our taxable years beginning with 1992. We also believe that our current structure and method of operation is such that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. However, given the complexity of the REIT qualification requirements, we cannot provide any assurance that the actual results of our operations have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements under the Internal Revenue Code for a particular year.

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year and the relief provisions described herein do not apply, we will be subject to tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We also may be subject to the corporate “alternative minimum tax.” As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce the cash we have available to distribute to our shareholders. Unless entitled to statutory relief, we would not be able to re-elect to be taxed as a REIT until our fifth taxable year after the year of disqualification. It is not possible to state whether we would be entitled to statutory relief.

Our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend on our ability to satisfy various requirements under the Internal Revenue Code. We are required to satisfy these requirements on a continuing basis through actual annual operating and other results. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to remain qualified as a REIT.

Ownership of Taxable REIT Subsidiaries by Us. The Internal Revenue Code provides that REITs may own greater than ten percent of the voting power and value of the securities of a “taxable REIT subsidiary” or “TRS”, provided that the aggregate value of all of the TRS securities held by the REIT does not exceed 25% of the REIT's total asset value. TRSs are corporations subject to tax as a regular “C” corporation that have elected, jointly with a REIT, to be a TRS. Generally, a taxable REIT subsidiary may own assets that cannot otherwise be owned by a REIT and can perform impermissible tenant services (discussed below), which would otherwise taint our rental income under the REIT income tests. However, the REIT will be obligated to pay a 100% 

25
penalty tax on some payments that we receive or on certain expenses deducted by our TRSs if the economic arrangements between us, our tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. A TRS may also receive income from prohibited transactions without incurring the 100% federal income tax liability imposed on REITs. Income from prohibited transactions may include the purchase and sale of land, the purchase and sale of completed development properties and the sale of condominium units.

TRSs pay federal and state income tax at the full applicable corporate rates. The amount of taxes paid on impermissible tenant services income and the sale of real estate held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business may be material in amount. The TRSs will attempt to reduce, if possible, the amount of these taxes, but we cannot guarantee whether, or the extent to which, measures taken to reduce these taxes will be successful. To the extent that these companies are required to pay taxes, less cash may be available for distributions to shareholders.

Share Ownership Test and Organizational Requirement. In order to qualify as a REIT, our shares of beneficial interest must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a taxable year that is 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. Also, not more than 50% in value of our shares of beneficial interest may be owned directly or indirectly by applying certain constructive ownership rules, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. In addition, we must meet certain other organizational requirements, including, but not limited to, that (i) the beneficial ownership in us is evidenced by transferable shares and (ii) we are managed by one or more trustees. We believe that we have satisfied all of these tests and all other organizational requirements and that we will continue to do so in the future. In order to ensure compliance with the 100 person test and the 50% share ownership test discussed above, we have placed certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares that are intended to prevent further concentration of share ownership. However, such restrictions may not prevent us from failing these requirements, and thereby failing to qualify as a REIT.

Gross Income Tests. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests:

(1)At least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year must generally be derived directly or indirectly from rents from real property, interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of non-dealer real property and shares of REIT stock, dividends paid by another REIT and from some types of temporary investments (excluding certain hedging income).

(2)At least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year must generally be derived from sources qualifying under the 75% test described in (1) above, non-REIT dividends, non-real estate mortgage interest and gain from the sale or disposition of non-REIT stock or securities (excluding certain hedging income).

To qualify as rents from real property for the purpose of satisfying the gross income tests, rental payments must generally be received from unrelated persons and not be based on the net income of the resident. Also, the rent attributable to personal property must not exceed 15% of the total rent. We may generally provide services to residents without “tainting” our rental income only if such services are “usually or customarily rendered” in connection with the rental of real property and not otherwise considered “impermissible services”. If such services are impermissible, then we may generally provide them only if they are considered de minimis in amount, or are provided through an independent contractor from whom we derive no revenue and that meets other requirements, or through a taxable REIT subsidiary. We believe that services provided to residents by us either are usually or customarily rendered in connection with the rental of real property and not otherwise considered impermissible, or, if considered impermissible services, will meet the de minimis test or will be provided by an independent contractor or taxable REIT subsidiary. However, we cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with these positions.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for the year if we are entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. In this case, a penalty tax would still be applicable as discussed above. Generally, it is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions and in the event these relief provisions do not apply, we will not qualify as a REIT.

Asset Tests. In general, on the last day of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets: 

(1)At least 75% of the value of our total assets must consist of real estate assets (which include for this purpose shares in other real estate investment trusts) and certain cash related items;

(2)Not more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of securities other than those in the 75% asset class;

(3)Except for securities included in item 1 above, equity investments in other REITs, qualified REIT subsidiaries (i.e., corporations owned 100% by a REIT that are not TRSs or REITs), or taxable REIT subsidiaries: (a) the value of any one issuer's securities owned by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and (b) we may not own 

26
securities representing more than 10% of the voting power or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer; and

(4)Not more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.

The 10% value test described in clause (3)(b) above does not apply to certain securities that fall within a safe harbor under the Code. Under the safe harbor, the following are not considered “securities” held by us for purposes of this 10% value test: (i) straight debt securities, (ii) any loan of an individual or an estate, (iii) certain rental agreements for the use of tangible property, (iv) any obligation to pay rents from real property, (v) any security issued by a state or any political subdivision thereof, foreign government or Puerto Rico only if the determination of any payment under such security is not based on the profits of another entity or payments on any obligation issued by such other entity, or (vi) any security issued by a REIT. The timing and payment of interest or principal on a security qualifying as straight debt may be subject to a contingency provided that (A) such contingency does not change the effective yield to maturity, not considering a de minimis change which does not exceed the greater of ¼ of 1% or 5% of the annual yield to maturity or we own $1,000,000 or less of the aggregate issue price or value of the particular issuer's debt and not more than 12 months of unaccrued interest can be required to be prepaid or (B) the contingency is consistent with commercial practice and the contingency is effective upon a default or the exercise of a prepayment right by the issuer of the debt. If we hold indebtedness from any issuer, including a REIT, the indebtedness will be subject to, and may cause a violation of, the asset tests, unless it is a qualifying real estate asset or otherwise satisfies the above safe harbor. We currently own equity interests in certain entities that have elected to be taxed as REITs for federal income tax purposes and are not publicly traded. If any such entity were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not meet the 10% voting stock limitation and the 10% value limitation and we would, unless certain relief provisions applied, fail to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we and each of the REITs we own an interest in have and will comply with the foregoing asset tests for REIT qualification. However, we cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with our determinations.

If we fail to satisfy the 5% or 10% asset tests described above after a 30-day cure period provided in the Internal Revenue Code, we will be deemed to have met such tests if the value of our non-qualifying assets is de minimis (i.e., does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the total value of our assets at the end of the applicable quarter or $10,000,000) and we dispose of the non-qualifying assets within six months after the last day of the quarter in which the failure to satisfy the asset tests is discovered. For violations due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that are in excess of the de minimis exception described above, we may avoid disqualification as a REIT under any of the asset tests, after the 30-day cure period, by disposing of sufficient assets to meet the asset test within such six month period, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets and disclosing certain information to the Internal Revenue Service. If we cannot avail ourselves of these relief provisions, or if we fail to timely cure any noncompliance with the asset tests, we would cease to qualify as a REIT.

 Annual Distribution Requirements. To qualify as a REIT, we are generally required to distribute dividends, other than capital gain dividends, to our shareholders each year in an amount at least equal to 90% of our REIT taxable income. These distributions must be paid either in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for the prior year and if paid with or before the first regular dividend payment date after the declaration is made. We intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy our annual distribution requirements. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, as adjusted, we are subject to tax on these amounts at regular corporate rates. We will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of amounts actually distributed and amounts retained for which federal income tax was paid, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of: (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year; (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for the year; and (3) any undistributed taxable income from prior taxable years. A REIT may elect to retain rather than distribute all or a portion of its net capital gains and pay the tax on the gains. In that case, a REIT may elect to have its shareholders include their proportionate share of the undistributed net capital gains in income as long-term capital gains and receive a credit for their share of the tax paid by the REIT. For purposes of the 4% excise tax described above, any retained amounts would be treated as having been distributed.

Ownership of Partnership Interests By Us. As a result of our ownership of the Operating Partnership, we will be considered to own and derive our proportionate share of the assets and items of income of the Operating Partnership, respectively, for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, including its share of assets and items of income of any subsidiaries that are partnerships or limited liability companies.

State and Local Taxes. We may be subject to state or local taxation in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or reside. Generally REITs have seen increases in state and local taxes in recent years. Our state and local tax treatment may not conform to the federal income tax treatment discussed above. Consequently, prospective shareholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the effect of state and local tax laws on an investment in common shares.

27
Taxation of Domestic Shareholders Subject to U.S. Tax

General. If we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our taxable domestic shareholders with respect to their common shares, other than capital gain distributions and distributions attributable to taxable REIT subsidiaries, will be treated as ordinary income to the extent that the distributions come out of earnings and profits. These distributions will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction for shareholders that are corporations nor will they constitute “qualified dividend income” under the Internal Revenue Code, meaning that such dividends will be taxed at marginal rates applicable to ordinary income rather than the special capital gain rates currently applicable to qualified dividend income distributed to shareholders who satisfy applicable holding period requirements. In determining whether distributions are out of earnings and profits, we will allocate our earnings and profits first to preferred shares and second to the common shares. The portion of ordinary dividends which represent ordinary dividends we receive from a TRS, will be designated as “qualified dividend income” to REIT shareholders. These qualified dividends are eligible for preferential tax rates if paid to our non-corporate shareholders.

To the extent we make distributions to our taxable domestic shareholders in excess of our earnings and profits, such distributions will be considered a return of capital. Such distributions will be treated as a tax-free distribution and will reduce the tax basis of a shareholder's common shares by the amount of the distribution so treated. To the extent such distributions cumulatively exceed a taxable domestic shareholder's tax basis, such distributions are taxable as gain from the sale of shares. Shareholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or capital losses.

Dividends declared by a REIT in October, November, or December are deemed to have been paid by the REIT and received by its shareholders on December 31 of that year, so long as the dividends are actually paid during January of the following year. However, this treatment only applies to the extent of the REIT's earnings and profits existing on December 31. To the extent the shareholder distribution paid in January exceeds available earnings and profits as of December 31, the excess will be treated as a distribution taxable to shareholders in the year paid. As such, for tax reporting purposes, January distributions paid to our shareholders may be split between two tax years.

Distributions made by us that we properly designate as capital gain dividends will be taxable to taxable domestic shareholders as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than one year. This treatment applies only to the extent that the designated distributions do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year. It applies regardless of the period for which a domestic shareholder has held his or her common shares. Despite this general rule, corporate shareholders may be required to treat up to 20% of certain capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

Generally, our designated capital gain dividends will be broken out into net capital gains distributions (which are taxable to taxable domestic shareholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 20% as of January 1, 2013 for individual taxpayers in the highest tax bracket) and unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distributions (which are taxable to taxable domestic shareholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%).

If, for any taxable year, we elect to designate as capital gain dividends any portion of the dividends paid or made available for the year to holders of all classes of shares of beneficial interest, then the portion of the capital gains dividends that will be allocable to the holders of common shares will be the total capital gain dividends multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction will be the total dividends paid or made available to the holders of the common shares for the year. The denominator of the fraction will be the total dividends paid or made available to holders of all classes of shares of beneficial interest. 

We may elect to retain (rather than distribute as is generally required) net capital gain for a taxable year and pay the income tax on that gain. If we make this election, shareholders must include in income, as long-term capital gain, their proportionate share of the undistributed net capital gain. Shareholders will be treated as having paid their proportionate share of the tax paid by us on these gains. Accordingly, they will receive a tax credit or refund for the amount. Shareholders will increase the basis in their common shares by the difference between the amount of capital gain included in their income and the amount of the tax they are treated as having paid. Our earnings and profits will be adjusted appropriately.

In general, a shareholder will recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes on the sale or other disposition of common shares in an amount equal to the difference between:

(a)the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property received in the sale or other disposition; and

(b)the shareholder's adjusted tax basis in the common shares.

The gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if the common shares were held as a capital asset. Generally, the capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if the common shares were held for more than one year.

28
In general, a loss recognized by a shareholder upon the sale of common shares that were held for six months or less, determined after applying certain holding period rules, will be treated as long-term capital loss to the extent that the shareholder received distributions that were treated as long-term capital gains. For shareholders who are individuals, trusts and estates, the long-term capital loss will be apportioned among the applicable long-term capital gain rates to the extent that distributions received by the shareholder were previously so treated.

Taxation of Domestic Tax-Exempt Shareholders

Most tax-exempt organizations are not subject to federal income tax except to the extent of their unrelated business taxable income, which is often referred to as UBTI. Unless a tax-exempt shareholder holds its common shares as debt financed property or uses the common shares in an unrelated trade or business, distributions to the shareholder should not constitute UBTI. Similarly, if a tax-exempt shareholder sells common shares, the income from the sale should not constitute UBTI unless the shareholder held the shares as debt financed property or used the shares in a trade or business.

However, for tax-exempt shareholders that are social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts, and qualified group legal services plans, income from owning or selling common shares will constitute UBTI unless the organization is able to properly deduct amounts set aside or placed in reserve so as to offset the income generated by its investment in common shares. These shareholders should consult their own tax advisors concerning these set aside and reserve requirements which are set forth in the Internal Revenue Code.

In addition, certain pension trusts that own more than 10% of a “pension-held REIT” must report a portion of the distributions that they receive from the REIT as UBTI. We have not been and do not expect to be treated as a pension-held REIT for purposes of this rule.

Taxation of Foreign Shareholders

The following is a discussion of certain anticipated United States federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of common shares applicable to a foreign shareholder. For purposes of this discussion, a “foreign shareholder” is any person other than:

(a)a citizen or resident of the United States;

(b)a corporation or partnership created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or

(c)an estate or trust whose income is includable in gross income for United States federal income tax purposes regardless of its source.

Distributions by Us. Distributions by us to a foreign shareholder that are neither attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of United States real property interests nor designated by us as capital gains dividends will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our earnings and profits. These distributions ordinarily will be subject to withholding of United States federal income tax on a gross basis at a 30% rate, or a lower treaty rate, unless the dividends are treated as effectively connected with the conduct by the foreign shareholder of a United States trade or business. Please note that under certain treaties lower withholding rates generally applicable to dividends do not apply to dividends from REITs. Dividends that are effectively connected with a United States trade or business will be subject to tax on a net basis at graduated rates, and are generally not subject to withholding. Certification and disclosure requirements must be satisfied before a dividend is exempt from withholding under this exemption. A foreign shareholder that is a corporation also may be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a 30% rate or a lower treaty rate.

We expect to withhold United States income tax at the rate of 30% on any such distributions made to a foreign shareholder unless:

(a)a lower treaty rate applies and any required form or certification evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us; or

(b)the foreign shareholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution is effectively connected income.

If such distribution is in excess of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, it will not be taxable to a foreign shareholder to the extent that the distribution does not exceed the adjusted basis of the shareholder's common shares. Instead, the 

29
distribution will reduce the adjusted basis of the common shares. To the extent that the distribution exceeds the adjusted basis of the common shares, it will give rise to gain from the sale or exchange of the shareholder's common shares. The tax treatment of this gain is described below.

We intend to withhold at a rate of 30%, or a lower applicable treaty rate, on the entire amount of any distribution not designated as a capital gain distribution. In such event, a foreign shareholder may seek a refund of the withheld amount from the IRS if it is subsequently determined that the distribution was, in fact, in excess of our earnings and profits, and the amount withheld exceeded the foreign shareholder's United States tax liability with respect to the distribution.

Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of our stock which is “regularly traded” on an established securities market, will be treated as an ordinary dividend described above, if the foreign shareholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the one year period ending on the date of the distribution. Foreign shareholders generally will not be required to report such distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including any capital gain dividends, will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced or eliminated under an applicable income tax treaty), as described above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no longer apply to such distributions.

Distributions to a foreign shareholder that we designate at the time of the distributions as capital gain dividends, other than those arising from the disposition of a United States real property interest, generally will not be subject to United States federal income taxation unless:

(a)the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same treatment as domestic shareholders, except that a shareholder that is a foreign corporation may also be subject to the branch profits tax, as discussed above; or

(b)the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and has a “tax home” in the United States, in which case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% tax on the individual's capital gains.

Under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which is known as FIRPTA, distributions to a foreign shareholder that are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of United States real property interests will cause the foreign shareholder to be treated as recognizing the gain as income effectively connected with a United States trade or business. This rule applies whether or not a distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend. Accordingly, foreign shareholders generally would be taxed on these distributions at the same rates applicable to U.S. shareholders, subject to a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. In addition, a foreign corporate shareholder might be subject to the branch profits tax discussed above, as well as U.S. federal income tax return filing requirements. We are required to withhold 35% of these distributions. The withheld amount can be credited against the foreign shareholder's United States federal income tax liability.

Although the law is not entirely clear on the matter, it appears that amounts we designate as undistributed capital gains in respect of the common shares held by U.S. shareholders would be treated with respect to foreign shareholders in the same manner as actual distributions of capital gain dividends. Under that approach, foreign shareholders would be able to offset as a credit against their United States federal income tax liability their proportionate share of the tax paid by us on these undistributed capital gains. In addition, if timely requested, foreign shareholders might be able to receive from the IRS a refund to the extent their proportionate share of the tax paid by us were to exceed their actual United States federal income tax liability.

Foreign Shareholders' Sales of Common Shares. Gain recognized by a foreign shareholder upon the sale or exchange of common shares generally will not be subject to United States taxation unless the shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA. The common shares will not constitute a United States real property interest so long as we are a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its stock is held directly or indirectly by foreign shareholders. We believe that we are a domestically controlled REIT. Therefore, we believe that the sale of common shares will not be subject to taxation under FIRPTA. However, because common shares and preferred shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be a domestically controlled REIT. In any event, gain from the sale or exchange of common shares not otherwise subject to FIRPTA will be subject to U.S. tax, if either:

(a)the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same treatment as domestic shareholders with respect to the gain; or

30
(b)the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and has a tax home in the United States, in which case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% tax on the individual's capital gains.

Even if we do not qualify as or cease to be a domestically controlled REIT, gain arising from the sale or exchange by a foreign shareholder of common shares still would not be subject to United States taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a United States real property interest if:

(a) the class or series of shares being sold is “regularly traded,” as defined by applicable IRS regulations, on an established securities market such as the New York Stock Exchange; and 

(b)the selling foreign shareholder owned 5% or less of the value of the outstanding class or series of shares being sold throughout the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange.

If gain on the sale or exchange of common shares were subject to taxation under FIRPTA, the foreign shareholder would be subject to regular United States income tax with respect to the gain in the same manner as a taxable U.S. shareholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax, a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals and the possible application of the branch profits tax in the case of foreign corporations. The purchaser of the common shares would be required to withhold and remit to the IRS 10% of the purchase price.

Information Reporting Requirement and Backup Withholding

We will report to our domestic shareholders and the Internal Revenue Service the amount of distributions paid during each calendar year and the amount of tax withheld, if any. Under certain circumstances, domestic shareholders may be subject to backup withholding. Backup withholding will apply only if such domestic shareholder fails to furnish certain information to us or the Internal Revenue Service. Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-exempt organizations. Domestic shareholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding their qualification for exemption from backup withholding and the procedure for obtaining such an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a domestic shareholder will be allowed as a credit against such person's United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such person to a refund, provided that the required information is timely furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.

Medicare Tax on Unearned Income

The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 requires certain U.S. shareholders that are taxed as individuals, estates or trusts to pay an additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of shares for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. 

Withholding on Foreign Financial Institutions and Non-U.S. Shareholders

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2009 may impose withholding taxes on certain types of payments made to “foreign financial institutions” and certain other non-U.S. shareholders. Under this legislation, the failure to comply with additional certification, information reporting and other specified requirements could result in withholding tax being imposed on payments of dividends and sales proceeds to U.S. shareholders that own their shares through foreign accounts or foreign intermediaries and certain non-U.S. shareholders. The legislation imposes a 30% withholding tax on dividends on, and gross proceeds from the sale or other disposition of, our shares paid to a foreign financial institution or to a foreign non-financial entity, unless (i) the foreign financial institution undertakes certain diligence and reporting obligations or (ii) the foreign non-financial entity either certifies it does not have any substantial U.S. owners or furnishes identifying information regarding each substantial U.S. owner. In addition, if the payee is a foreign financial institution, it generally must enter into an agreement with the U.S. Treasury that requires, among other things, that it undertake to identify accounts held by certain U.S. persons or U.S.-owned foreign entities, annually report certain information about such accounts and withhold 30% on payments to certain other account holders. Proposed Regulations have delayed implementation of these rules with respect to payments such as distributions made with respect to our capital stock until January 1, 2014, and with respect to payments such as gross proceeds from sales or exchanges of our capital stock until January 1, 2015. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

31
Item 2. Properties