Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and the Operating Partnership should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes, except for two unconsolidated developments and our military housing properties. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date hereof and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to the following:

▪We intend to actively acquire and/or develop multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. 

40
We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease up. We may be unable to lease up these apartment properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields due to lower occupancy and rates as well as higher than expected concessions. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position or to complete a development property. Additionally, we expect that other real estate investors with capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development and acquisition efforts. This competition (or lack thereof) may increase (or depress) prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios, that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. The total number of apartment units under development, costs of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;

▪Debt financing and other capital required by the Company may not be available or may only be available on adverse terms;

▪Labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated;

▪Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, rental housing subsidized by the government, other government programs that favor single family rental housing or owner occupied housing over multifamily rental housing, slow or negative employment growth and household formation, the availability of low-interest mortgages for single family home buyers, changes in social preferences and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and

▪Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Overview

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP.

 EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2012 owned an approximate 95.9% ownership interest in ERPOP. All of the Company's property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues public equity from time to time but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company's ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity. 

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its markets. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 3,600 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.

Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies

The Company invests in high quality apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital. 

We seek to maximize the income and capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets (our core markets) that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property appreciation. We are focused primarily on the six core coastal, high barrier to entry markets of Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. These markets generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to increase rents:

41
▪High barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply; 

▪High home ownership costs;

▪Strong economic growth leading to household formation and job growth, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments;

▪Urban core locations with an attractive quality of life and higher wage job categories leading to high resident demand and retention; and

▪Favorable demographics contributing to a larger pool of target residents with a high propensity to rent apartments. 

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends. 

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign their leases, review their accounts and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line. 

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture agreements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. The Company may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings. The Company has also, in the past, converted some of its properties and sold them as condominiums but is not currently active in this line of business.

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio from low barrier to entry/non-core markets to high barrier to entry/core markets. Since 2005, the Company has sold over 133,000 apartment units primarily in its non-core markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $11.1 billion, acquired over 44,000 apartment units in its core markets for approximately $10.3 billion and began approximately $3.0 billion of development projects in its core markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets primarily in the following targeted metropolitan areas (our core markets): Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. We also have investments (in the aggregate about 15.8% of our NOI at December 31, 2012) in other markets including South Florida, Denver and New England (excluding Boston) but do not currently intend to acquire or develop new assets in these markets. Further, we are in the process of exiting Atlanta, Phoenix, Orlando and Jacksonville as we raise capital to complete the Archstone transaction. 

As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties or land on which apartment properties can be constructed. We intend to hold a diversified portfolio of assets across our target markets. As of December 31, 2012, no single metropolitan area accounted for more than 15.9% of our NOI, though no guarantee can be made that NOI concentration may not increase in the future. 

We endeavor to attract and retain the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensively train our customer service specialists in maintaining the property and its improvements, equipment and appliances. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and have consistently received high engagement scores. 

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated 

42
in pedestrian-friendly urban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water usage by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting, HVAC and renewable energy improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption.

Current Environment

On November 26, 2012, the Company and AvalonBay Communities, Inc. ("AvalonBay" or "AVB") (NYSE:AVB) entered into a contract with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman") to acquire the assets and liabilities of Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone"), which consists principally of a portfolio of high-quality apartment properties in major markets in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will acquire approximately 60% of Archstone's assets and liabilities and AvalonBay will acquire approximately 40% of Archstone's assets and liabilities. The Company will acquire approximately 75 operating properties, four properties under development and several land parcels to be held for future development for approximately $8.9 billion which will consist of cash of approximately $2.0 billion, 34,468,085 Common Shares and the assumption of the Company's portion of the liabilities related to the Archstone assets (other than certain liabilities owed to Lehman and certain transaction expenses). The Company also expects to assume approximately $3 billion of consolidated Archstone debt. In addition, the Company and AvalonBay will acquire certain assets of Archstone, including Archstone’s interests in certain joint ventures, interests in a portfolio of properties located in Germany and certain development land parcels, and will become subject to approximately $179.9 million in preferred interests of Archstone unitholders through various unconsolidated joint ventures expected to be owned 60% by the Company and 40% by AvalonBay. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013. 

We expect continued growth in 2013 same store revenue (anticipated increase ranging from 4.0% to 5.0%) and 2013 NOI (anticipated increase ranging from 4.5% to 6.0%) and are optimistic that the strength in fundamentals realized in the past couple of years and so far in 2013 will be sustained for the foreseeable future. We believe the key drivers behind the anticipated increase in revenue are base rent pricing for new residents, renewal pricing for existing residents, resident turnover and physical occupancy. Thus far in 2013, base rents are higher as compared with the same period last year and are gradually increasing from normal seasonal lows. We expect base rent growth to average 4.0% to 4.5% with higher growth during the peak leasing season. Renewal rates remain strong and are expected to exceed 5.0% on average throughout the year. The significant disposition activity discussed below, including exiting certain of our non-core markets, will leave a same store set expected to show a decrease in turnover as compared to 2012. Although occupancy is higher than anticipated for this time of the year, it is expected to remain consistent with last year. Despite slow growth in the overall economy, our business continues to perform well because of the combined forces of demographics, household formations and the continued aversion to home ownership, all of which should ensure a continued strong demand for rental housing. 

The Company anticipates that 2013 same store expenses will increase 2.5% to 3.5% primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, which are expected to increase over 6% in 2013. This is primarily due to rate and value increases in certain states and municipalities, reflecting those states' and municipalities' continued economic challenges and the dramatic improvement in apartment fundamentals. The other key driver of this increase is the burn off of 421a tax abatements in New York City. Very good expense control in the core property level expenses (excluding real estate taxes) continues as the Company leverages technology to lower costs, which should partially offset the increase in real estate taxes. This exceptional expense control has allowed the Company to realize over five years of same store annual expense growth below 3.0%.

While competition for the properties we are interested in acquiring is significant due to continued strength in market fundamentals, we are focusing our attention in 2013 on closing the Archstone acquisition and integrating its properties and operations. We believe our access to capital, our ability to execute large, complex transactions and our ability to efficiently stabilize large scale lease up properties provide us with a competitive advantage, which is demonstrated in the pending Archstone transaction. The Company acquired nine consolidated properties consisting of 1,896 apartment units for $906.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company did not budget for any acquisitions to occur outside of Archstone during the year ending December 31, 2013.

The Company also acquired six land parcels for $141.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company started construction on two projects (inclusive of the Company's co-development with Toll Brothers to develop 400 Park Avenue South in New York City) representing 357 apartment units totaling approximately $306.0 million of development costs during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company currently anticipates starting between $500.0 million and $700.0 million of new developments in 2013, some of which were delayed from 2012 as we worked on funding for the Archstone transaction. 

The Company continues to sell non-core assets and reduce its exposure to non-core markets as we believe these assets will have lower long-term returns and we can sell them for prices that we believe are favorable. The Archstone transaction provides an opportunity to accelerate this strategy and do so efficiently through the use of Section 1031 tax deferred exchanges. The 

43
Company sold 35 consolidated properties consisting of 9,012 apartment units for $1.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012. These dispositions combined with reinvestment of the cash proceeds in assets with lower cap rates (see definition below) were dilutive to our per share results. The Company defines dilution from transactions as the lost NOI from sales proceeds that were not reinvested in other apartment properties or were reinvested in properties with a lower cap rate. The Company anticipates consolidated dispositions of approximately $4.0 billion during the year ending December 31, 2013. The Company plans to fund a portion of the cash purchase price of the Archstone transaction with capital raised through these significant dispositions of assets. The Company currently anticipates that $3.5 billion of the projected $4.0 billion of dispositions for 2013 will occur in the first half of 2013. While this accelerated disposition program will be dilutive to our per share results, it should reduce the execution risk on the Archstone transaction. 

We currently have access to multiple sources of capital including the equity markets as well as both the secured and unsecured debt markets. In December 2012, the Company raised $1.2 billion in equity in a public offering of 21,850,000 Common Shares priced at $54.75 per share. We also raised $192.3 million under our ATM program in 2012. On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion credit facility with a new $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The Company believes that the new facility contains a diversified and strong bank group which increases its balance sheet flexibility going forward. On January 11, 2013, the Company also entered into a new senior unsecured $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility which is currently undrawn and may be drawn anytime on or before July 11, 2013. With the completion of these financing activities, along with cash on hand, the Company believes it has sufficient capital available to fund its portion of the Archstone acquisition cash price, transaction costs and required debt paydowns. 

 We believe that cash and cash equivalents, securities readily convertible to cash, current availability on our revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility and disposition proceeds for 2013 will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our funding obligations relating to asset acquisitions (including Archstone), debt maturities and existing development projects through 2013. We expect that our remaining longer-term funding requirements will be met through some combination of new borrowings, equity issuances (including EQR's ATM Common Share offering program), property dispositions, joint ventures and cash generated from operations. 

There is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”). Through their lender originator networks, the GSEs are significant lenders both to the Company and to buyers of the Company's properties. The GSEs have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities. Any changes to their mandates, reductions in their size or the scale of their activities or loss of key personnel could have a significant impact on the Company and may, among other things, lead to lower values for our disposition assets and higher interest rates on our borrowings. Such changes may also provide an advantage to us by making the cost of financing single family home ownership more expensive and provide us a competitive advantage given the size of our balance sheet and the multiple sources of capital to which we have access. 

We believe that the Company is well-positioned as of December 31, 2012 because our properties are geographically diverse, were approximately 94.3% occupied (95.0% on a same store basis) and the long-term demographic picture is positive. With the exception of the Washington, D.C. and Seattle market areas and the San Jose sub-market area of San Francisco, little new multifamily rental supply will be added to our core markets over the next several years. We believe our strong balance sheet and ample liquidity will allow us to fund our debt maturities and development costs in the near term, and should also allow us to take advantage of investment opportunities in the future. As economic conditions continue to improve, the short-term nature of our leases and the limited supply of new rental housing being constructed, along with the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel, should allow us to realize even more revenue growth and improvement in our operating results.

The current environment information presented above is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Results of Operations

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company continued to invest in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. In summary, we:

Year Ended December 31, 2012:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
weighted average cap rate of 6.2%, the majority of which were in exit or less desirable markets. These sales, excluding two leveraged partially-owned assets sold during the third quarter, generated an unlevered internal rate of return (IRR), inclusive of management costs, of 10.6%.

Year Ended December 31, 2011:

▪Acquired $1.3 billion of apartment properties consisting of 20 consolidated properties and 6,103 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate (see definition below) of 5.2% and acquired five land parcels and entered into a long-term ground lease on one land parcel located in New York City for a total of $68.3 million, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Acquired one unoccupied property in the San Francisco Bay Area in the third quarter of 2011 for $39.5 million consisting of 95 apartment units that is expected to stabilize at a 6.3% yield on cost;

▪Acquired a 97,000 square foot commercial building adjacent to our Harbor Steps apartment property in downtown Seattle for $11.8 million for potential redevelopment; and

▪Sold $1.5 billion of consolidated apartment properties consisting of 47 properties and 14,345 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 6.5% generating an unlevered internal rate of return (IRR), inclusive of management costs, of 11.1% and one land parcel for $22.8 million, the majority of which were in exit or less desirable markets. 

The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of its operating performance because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities. The cap rate is generally the first year NOI yield (net of replacements) on the Company's investment.

Properties that the Company owned and were stabilized (see definition below) for all of both 2012 and 2011 (the “2012 Same Store Properties”), which represented 98,577 apartment units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2011 and 2010 (the “2011 Same Store Properties”), which represented 101,312 apartment units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2012 Same Store Properties and 2011 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.

The following tables provide a rollforward of the apartment units included in Same Store Properties and a reconciliation of apartment units included in Same Store Properties to those included in Total Properties for the year ended December 31, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Properties are considered "stabilized" when they have achieved 90% occupancy for three consecutive months. Properties are included in Same Store when they are stabilized for all of the current and comparable periods presented.

(1)In 2010, the Company consolidated seven properties containing 1,811 apartment units that had previously been categorized as unconsolidated. Of these properties, one containing 208 apartment units was sold in 2010, two containing 560 apartment units were sold in 2011 and two containing 542 apartment units were sold in 2012.

(2)Includes properties in various stages of lease-up and properties where lease-up has been completed but the properties were not stabilized for the comparable periods presented.

The Company's acquisition, disposition and completed development activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The impacts of these activities are discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2012 to the year ended December 31, 2011 

For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $2.70 compared to $2.95 per share for the year ended December 31, 2011. The difference is primarily due to higher gains from property sales in 2011 vs. 2012, partially offset by higher total property net operating income driven by the positive impact of the Company’s same store and lease-up activity and the Company's recognition of $150.0 million in termination fees related to our pursuit of Archstone (see Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).

For the year ended December 31, 2012, income from continuing operations increased approximately $253.8 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2012 Same Store Properties increased $97.5 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents and slightly higher occupancy, partially offset by increased turnover. Expenses from the 2012 Same Store Properties increased $11.2 million primarily due to increases in real estate taxes and insurance, partially offset by a decrease in utilities. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2012 Same Store Properties:

46
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2012 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges, association and business licensing fees and ground lease costs.

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations to NOI for the 2012 Same Store Properties:

47
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2012 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2013 (which is computed based on the portfolio of approximately 80,000 apartment units that the Company expects to have in its annual same store set after the completion of its planned 2013 dispositions), the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company anticipates no consolidated rental acquisitions outside of Archstone and consolidated rental dispositions of $4.0 billion and expects that acquisitions will have a 1.00% lower cap rate than dispositions for the full year ending December 31, 2013.

These 2013 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $95.0 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2011 and 2012, as well as operations from the Company’s completed development properties. Although the operations of both the non-same store assets and the same store assets have been positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2012, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company’s overall operating results primarily due to 2011 and 2012 acquisitions, increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2012 than 2011. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $12.3 million;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $5.9 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $0.2 million or 3.4% primarily as a result of fees earned on management of the Company’s unconsolidated development joint ventures, partially offset by lower revenues earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base and higher expenses. 

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses were consistent between the periods under comparison. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $51.5 million or 8.4% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2011 and 2012, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of both in-place leases and furniture, fixtures and equipment that were fully depreciated. 

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased 

48
approximately $3.6 million or 8.4% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the acceleration of long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees, partially offset by a decrease in office rent. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $55.0 million to $58.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2013. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $142.6 million primarily due to the Company recognizing $150.0 million in termination fees related to our pursuit of Archstone during the year ended December 31, 2012, partially offset by lower interest earned on cash and cash equivalents due to lower overall cash invested during the year ended December 31, 2012 as well as forfeited deposits for terminated disposition transactions, proceeds received from the Company’s final royalty participation in LRO/Rainmaker (a revenue management system) and litigation settlement proceeds that all occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 and did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $0.5 million to $1.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2013. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $13.1 million or 91.4% primarily due to the settlement of a dispute with the owners of a land parcel, an increase in the expensing of overhead (pursuit costs write-offs) as a result of a more active focus on sourcing new development opportunities, an increase in property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company's 2012 acquisitions and transaction costs related to the pursuit of Archstone.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, decreased approximately $2.0 million or 0.4% primarily as a result of lower interest expense on mortgage notes payable due to lower balances during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, higher capitalized interest in 2012, the redemption of the Company's $650.0 million of unsecured notes in August 2011 and the repayment of $253.9 million of 6.625% unsecured notes in March 2012, partially offset by interest expense on the $1.0 billion of unsecured notes that closed in December 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $22.5 million as compared to $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 5.37% as compared to 5.30% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company anticipates that interest expense from continuing operations will approximate $477.3 million to $498.8 million (excluding debt extinguishment costs) for the year ending December 31, 2013. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $0.2 million or 26.0% primarily due to decreases in all other taxes. The Company anticipates that income and other tax expense will approximate $1.5 million to $2.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2013. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities increased as a result of the start of operations at one of the Company's unconsolidated development joint ventures.

Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased approximately $4.2 million due to the gain on sale of a land parcel located in suburban Washington, D.C. during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to no land sales during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Discontinued operations, net decreased approximately $307.8 million or 35.1% between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to higher gains on sales from dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2012. Properties sold in 2012 reflect operations for a partial period in 2012 in contrast to a full period in 2011. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2011 to the year ended December 31, 2010 

For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $2.95 compared to $0.95 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010. The difference is primarily due to higher gains from property sales in 2011 vs. 2010, higher total property net operating income driven by the positive impact of the Company's same store and lease-up activity and $45.4 million in impairment losses in 2010 that did not reoccur in 2011, partially offset by dilution as a result of the net impact of the Company's 2010 and 2011 acquisition and disposition activities. 

For the year ended December 31, 2011, income from continuing operations increased approximately $160.9 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2011 Same Store Properties increased $81.9 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents and an increase in occupancy. Expenses from the 2011 Same Store Properties increased $3.5 million primarily due to increases in property management costs, real estate taxes and utilities, partially offset by decreases in leasing and advertising costs and insurance. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2011 Same Store Properties:

49
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2011 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone, data charges and association and business licensing fees.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $110.7 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2010 and 2011, as well as operations from the Company's completed development properties. Although the operations of both the non-same store assets and the same store assets have been positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2011, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company's overall operating results primarily due to 2010 and 2011 acquisitions, increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2011 than 2010. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $39.1 million;

50
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $3.0 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $0.3 million or 6.0% primarily due to revenues earned on management of the Company's unconsolidated development joint ventures, an increase in revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base and lower expenses, partially offset by the unwinding of four institutional joint ventures during 2010.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased approximately $2.0 million or 2.5%. This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the creation of the Company's central business group, which moved administrative functions off-site, and increases in legal and professional fees and education/conference expenses. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $31.1 million or 5.4% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2011, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of furniture, fixtures and equipment that were fully depreciated.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $3.7 million or 9.3% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the acceleration of long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees.

Impairment from continuing operations decreased approximately $45.4 million due to an impairment charge taken during the fourth quarter of 2010 on land held for development related to two potential development projects that did not reoccur in 2011. See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $2.8 million or 55.6% primarily as a result of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents due to larger overall cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010, forfeited deposits for terminated disposition transactions and proceeds received from the Company's final royalty participation in LRO/Rainmaker (a revenue management system), partially offset by insurance/litigation settlement proceeds that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010 and did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011.

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $2.5 million or 21.2% primarily due to an increase in property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company's 2011 acquisitions as well as transaction costs related to the pursuit of Archstone.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $10.7 million or 2.3% primarily as a result of a full year of interest expense on the $600.0 million of unsecured notes that closed in July 2010 and interest expense on forward starting swaps terminated in conjunction with the issuance of $1.0 billion of unsecured notes, partially offset by lower interest expense on mortgage notes payable due to lower balances during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $9.1 million as compared to $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 5.30% as compared to 5.14% for the year ended December 31, 2010. 

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $0.4 million primarily due to Tennessee and Texas franchise tax refunds received during the year ended December 31, 2010 that did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by decreases in all other taxes. 

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $0.7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to the unwinding of four institutional joint ventures during 2010.

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $28.1 million primarily due to the gain on sale and revaluation of seven previously unconsolidated properties that were acquired from the Company's joint venture partner and the 

51
gain on sale for 27 unconsolidated properties that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010 that did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011.

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased approximately $5.6 million primarily due to the gain on sale of a land parcel located in suburban Washington, D.C. during the year ended December 31, 2011 and a loss on sale of a land parcel during the same period in 2010.

Discontinued operations, net increased approximately $478.3 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to higher gains from property sales during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, partially offset by properties sold in 2011 which reflect operations for none of or a partial period in 2011 in contrast to a full or partial period in 2010. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 

EQR issues public equity from time to time and guarantees certain debt of ERPOP. EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership.

As of January 1, 2012, the Company had approximately $383.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, its restricted 1031 exchange proceeds totaled $53.7 million and it had $1.22 billion available under its revolving credit facility (net of $31.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2012 was approximately $612.6 million, its restricted 1031 exchange proceeds totaled $152.2 million and the amount available on its revolving credit facility was $1.72 billion (net of $30.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit).

During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Obtained $26.5 million in new mortgage financing;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Collected $150.0 million in termination fees relating to the pursuit of Archstone.

During the year ended December 31, 2012, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Invest $180.4 million primarily in development projects;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Redeem its Series N Preferred Shares at its liquidation value of $150.0 million.

On November 28, 2012, EQR priced the issuance of 21,850,000 Common Shares at a price of $54.75 per share for total consideration of approximately $1.2 billion, after deducting underwriting commissions of $35.9 million. Concurrent with the closing of this transaction, ERPOP issued 21,850,000 OP Units to EQR. 

In September 2009, EQR announced the establishment of an At-The-Market (“ATM”) share offering program which would allow EQR to sell up to 17.0 million Common Shares from time to time over the next three years (later increased by 5.7 million Common Shares and extended to February 2014) into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds from all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis). EQR may, but shall have no obligation to, sell Common Shares through the ATM share offering program in amounts and at times to be determined by EQR. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by EQR from time to time, including (among others) market conditions, the trading price of EQR's Common Shares and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding for EQR. During the year ended December 31, 2012, EQR issued approximately 3.2 million Common Shares at an average price of $60.59 per share for total consideration of approximately $192.3 million through the ATM program. During the year ended 

52
December 31, 2011, EQR issued approximately 3.9 million Common Shares at an average price of $52.23 per share for total consideration of approximately $201.9 million through the ATM program. During the year ended December 31, 2010, EQR issued approximately 6.2 million Common Shares at an average price of $47.45 per share for total consideration of approximately $291.9 million through the ATM program. Through February 15, 2013, EQR has cumulatively issued approximately 16.7 million Common Shares at an average price of $48.53 per share for total consideration of approximately $809.9 million. EQR has 6.0 million Common Shares remaining available for issuance under the ATM program as of February 15, 2013. 

On June 16, 2011, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2011 Share Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2011 Plan”). The 2011 Plan reserved 12,980,741 Common Shares for issuance. In conjunction with the approval of the 2011 Plan, no further awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan. The 2011 Plan expires on June 16, 2021. See Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, EQR may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Trustees. As of February 15, 2013, EQR had authorization to repurchase an additional $464.6 million of its shares. No shares were repurchased during 2012. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, the Company may from time to time seek to repurchase and retire its outstanding debt in open market or privately negotiated transactions.

The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:

Debt Summary as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $22.5 million and $9.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

53
Debt Maturity Schedule as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2012.

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2012:

Unsecured Debt Summary as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Fair value interest rate swaps convert $300.0 million of the 5.200% notes due April 1, 2013 to a floating interest rate.

(2)Facility is private. All other unsecured debt is public.

(3)As of December 31, 2012, there was approximately $1.72 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility. On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion facility with a new $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility 

54
maturing April 1, 2018. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.05%) and an annual facility fee (currently 15 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. As of January 31, 2013, there was approximately $2.47 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility. 

Note: In October 2012, the Company paid off the $222.1 million outstanding of its 5.500% public notes and its $500.0 million term loan facility, both at maturity.

An unlimited amount of equity and debt securities remains available for issuance by EQR and ERPOP under a universal shelf registration statement that automatically became effective upon filing with the SEC in October 2010 and expires on October 15, 2013. However, as of February 15, 2013, issuances under the ATM share offering program are limited to 6.0 million additional shares. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds of all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis) or preference units (on a one-for-one preferred share per preference unit basis).

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2012 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.

Equity Residential

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands except for share/unit and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity Residential

Perpetual Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On August 20, 2012, the Company redeemed its Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares for cash consideration of $150.0 million plus accrued dividends through the redemption date. As a result of this redemption, the Company recorded the write-off of approximately $5.1 million in original issuance costs as a premium on the redemption of Preferred Shares.

The Operating Partnership's “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2012 is presented in the following table. The Operating Partnership calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preference units outstanding.

55
ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Perpetual Preference Units as of December 31, 2012 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On August 20, 2012, the Operating Partnership redeemed its Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preference Units for cash consideration of $150.0 million plus accrued dividends through the redemption date, in conjunction with the concurrent redemption of the corresponding Company Preferred Shares. As a result of this redemption, the Operating Partnership recorded the write-off of approximately $5.1 million in original issuance costs as a premium on the redemption of Preference Units.

The Company generally expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. Under normal operating conditions, the Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions.

During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company announced a new dividend policy which it believes will generate payouts more closely aligned with the actual annual operating results of the Company’s core business and provide transparency to investors. The Company intends to pay an annual cash dividend equal to approximately 65% of Normalized FFO for the year. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company paid $0.3375 per share for each of the first three quarters and $0.7675 per share for the fourth quarter to bring the total payment for the year (an annual rate of $1.78 per share) to approximately 65% of Normalized FFO. The Company expects to pay $0.40 per share for each of the first three quarters of 2013. This represents an increase from the $0.3375 per share paid in each of the first three quarters of 2012. The Company anticipates the expected dividend payout will range from $1.82 to $1.89 per share ($0.40 per share for each of the first three quarters with the balance for the fourth quarter) for the year ending December 31, 2013. All future dividends remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Trustees. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. While our dividend policy makes it less likely we will over distribute, it will also lead to a dividend reduction more quickly than a fixed dividend policy should operating results deteriorate. However, whether due to changes in the dividend policy or otherwise, there may be times when the Company experiences shortfalls in its coverage of distributions, which may cause the Company to consider reducing its distributions and/or using the proceeds from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, the Company's financial condition may be adversely affected and it may not be able to maintain its current distribution levels. The Company believes that its expected 2013 operating cash flow will be sufficient to cover capital expenditures and distributions.

The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of secured and unsecured debt and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the 

56
disposition of certain properties and joint ventures. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $21.0 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2012, $15.1 billion or 71.6% was unencumbered. However, there can be no assurances that these sources of capital will be available to the Company in the future on acceptable terms or otherwise.

ERPOP's credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding senior debt are BBB+, Baal and BBB+, respectively. EQR's equity ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding preferred equity are BBB+, Baa2 and BBB-, respectively. Following the announcement of the Archstone transaction in November 2012, Fitch placed EQR's and ERPOP's ratings on negative watch. 

In July 2011, the Company replaced its then existing unsecured revolving credit facility with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the credit facility was generally LIBOR plus a spread (1.15%) and the Company paid an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee were dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long term debt. Effective January 6, 2012, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion. The terms did not change, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date. On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion credit facility with a new $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.05%) and an annual facility fee (currently 15 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. As of February 15, 2013, there was available borrowings of $2.47 billion (net of $30.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit) on the new revolving credit facility. This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions (including Archstone), costs for certain properties under development and short-term liquidity requirements. 

In 2010, a portion of the parking garage collapsed at one of the Company’s rental properties (Prospect Towers in Hackensack, New Jersey). The costs related to the collapse (both expensed and capitalized), including providing for residents' interim needs, lost revenue and garage reconstruction, were approximately $22.8 million, before insurance reimbursements of $13.6 million. The garage has been rebuilt with cumulative costs approximating $13.3 million capitalized as incurred. Other costs approximating $9.5 million, like those to accommodate displaced residents, lost revenue due to a portion of the property being temporarily unavailable for occupancy and legal costs, reduced earnings as they were incurred. Generally, insurance proceeds were recorded as increases to earnings as they were received. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company received approximately $3.5 million in insurance proceeds (included in real estate taxes and insurance on the consolidated statements of operations), which represented its final reimbursement of the $13.6 million in cumulative insurance proceeds. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received approximately $6.1 million in insurance proceeds which offset expenses of $1.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received approximately $4.0 million in insurance proceeds which fully offset the impairment charge recognized to write-off the net book value of the collapsed garage and partially offset expenses of $5.5 million that were recorded relating to this loss. In addition, the Company estimates that its lost revenues approximated $0.7 million and $1.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as a result of lost occupancy in the high-rise tower following the collapse. The Company does not anticipate any remaining costs or additional lost revenues as the project has been stabilized and the garage reconstruction has been completed. None of the amounts referenced above impact same store results. 

See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2012.

Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:

▪Replacements (inside the apartment unit). These include:

•flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl or tile;

•appliances;

•mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;

•furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and

•blinds.

57
All replacements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual apartment units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.

▪Building improvements (outside the apartment unit). These include:

•roof replacement and major repairs;

•paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;

•amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;

•major building mechanical equipment systems;

•interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;

•major landscaping and grounds improvement; and

•vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to fifteen-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.

For the year ended December 31, 2012, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $152.8 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 5,039 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $33.0 million spent in 2012 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 4,427 apartment units (equating to about $7,500 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2011, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2011 and 2012, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2011. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 10,754 apartment units.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $144.5 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 4,901 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $38.1 million spent in 2011 on apartment unit renovations/

58
rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 5,416 apartment units (equating to about $7,000 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2010, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2010 and 2011, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2010. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 11,414 apartment units.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.

For 2013, the Company estimates that it will spend approximately $1,500 per apartment unit of capital expenditures for the approximately 80,000 apartment units that the Company expects to have in its annual same store set after the completion of its planned 2013 dispositions, inclusive of apartment unit renovation/rehab costs, or $1,150 per apartment unit excluding apartment unit renovation/rehab costs. For 2013, the Company estimates that it will spend $40.8 million rehabbing 5,000 apartment units (equating to about $8,150 per apartment unit rehabbed). The above assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $8.8 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $4.2 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2013. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities and from investment cash flow.

Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company seeks to manage these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments. The Company may also use derivatives to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rates (should the Archstone transaction close) or manage commodity prices in the daily operations of the business. 

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from these instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives it currently has in place.

See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2012.

Other

Total distributions paid in January 2013 amounted to $260.2 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2012.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

The Company admitted an 80% institutional partner to two separate entities/transactions (one in December 2010 and the other in August 2011), each owning a developable land parcel, in exchange for $40.1 million in cash and retained a 20% equity interest in both of these entities. These land parcels are now unconsolidated. Total project costs are approximately $232.8 million and construction will be predominantly funded with two separate long-term, non-recourse secured loans from the partner. While the Company is the managing member of both of the joint ventures, is responsible for constructing both of the projects and has given certain construction cost overrun guarantees, all major decisions are made jointly, the large majority of funding is provided by the partner and the partner has significant involvement in and oversight of the ongoing projects. The Company currently has no further funding obligations related to these projects. The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its financial risk related to the development of the properties. However, management does not believe that these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its other consolidated development activities.

As of December 31, 2012, the Company has six consolidated projects (including 400 Park Avenue South in New York City which the Company is jointly developing with Toll Brothers – see Note 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion) totaling 1,536 apartment units and two unconsolidated projects totaling 945 apartment units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2015, as well as other completed development projects that are in various stages of lease up or are stabilized. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in 

59
detail in Note 16 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities.

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.

(b)Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured and unsecured debt based on obligations outstanding at December 31, 2012 and inclusive of capitalized interest. For floating rate debt, the current rate in effect for the most recent payment through December 31, 2012 is assumed to be in effect through the respective maturity date of each instrument.

(c)Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for five properties/parcels.

(d)Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, Vice Chairman and two former CEO’s based on actual and planned retirement dates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or different presentation of our financial statements.

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2012 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2011.

The Company has identified five significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The five critical accounting policies are:

Acquisition of Investment Properties

The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate, for indicators of impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal and environmental concerns, as well as the Company’s ability to hold and its intent with regard to each asset. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an 

60
impairment loss is warranted.

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate

The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 15-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.

Cost Capitalization

See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for a discussion of the Company’s policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes an allocation of the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.

For all development projects, the Company uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction-in-progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovations at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.

During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company capitalized $14.3 million, $11.6 million and $10.7 million, respectively, of payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the supervision of development activities as well as major capital and/or renovation projects.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments

The valuation of financial instruments requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.

Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

For the year ended December 31, 2012, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units increased $241.1 million, or 32.0%, and $123.6 million, or 16.3%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units increased $129.4 million, or 20.8%, and $77.2 million, or 11.3%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010.

The following is the Company's and the Operating Partnership's reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2012:

61
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales and impairment write-downs of depreciable operating properties, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of apartment units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.

(2) Normalized funds from operations (“Normalized FFO”) begins with FFO and excludes:

▪the impact of any expenses relating to non-operating asset impairment and valuation allowances;

▪property acquisition and other transaction costs related to mergers and acquisitions and pursuit cost write-offs (other expenses);

▪gains and losses from early debt extinguishment, including prepayment penalties, preferred share/preference unit redemptions and the cost related to the implied option value of non-cash convertible debt discounts;

▪gains and losses on the sales of non-operating assets, including gains and losses from land parcel and condominium sales, net of the effect of income tax benefits or expenses; and

▪other miscellaneous non-comparable items.

62
(3)The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. The company also believes that Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company because they allow investors to compare the company’s operating performance to its performance in prior reporting periods and to the operating performance of other real estate companies without the effect of items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period and tend to obscure the Company’s actual operating results. FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.

(4)FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares / Units and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares/preference units in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk