Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk consisting of foreign currency rate fluctuations and changes in interest rates.

Patterson is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in our operating statement due to transactions denominated primarily in Canadian Dollars and British Pounds. Although Patterson is not currently involved with foreign currency hedge contracts, we continually evaluate our foreign currency exchange rate risk and the different mechanisms for use in managing such risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to our most significant foreign currency exposures would have reduced fiscal 2016 net sales by approximately $84 million. This amount is not indicative of the hypothetical net earnings impact due to the partially offsetting impact of the currency exchange movements on cost of sales and operating expenses. Patterson estimates that if foreign currency exchange rates changed by 10% during the year, the annual impact would have been approximate $3 million to earnings before income taxes.

During fiscal 2016, we entered into the Credit Agreement under which the lenders provided Patterson with senior unsecured lending facilities of up to $1.5 billion, consisting of a $1.0 billion unsecured term loan and a $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Agreement is variable. Due to the interest rate being variable, fluctuations in interest rates may impact our earnings. Based on our current level of debt, we estimate that a 100 basis point change in the LIBOR rate would have a $3.2 million impact on our income from continuing operations before taxes on an annualized basis.

Patterson’s earnings are also affected by fluctuations in short-term interest rates through the investment of cash balances and the practice of selling fixed rate equipment finance contracts under agreements with both a commercial paper conduit and a bank that provide for pricing based on variable interest rates.

When considering the exposure under the agreements whereby Patterson sells equipment finance contracts to both a commercial paper conduit and bank, Patterson has the ability to select pricing based on interest rates ranging from 30 day LIBOR up to twelve month LIBOR. In addition, the majority of the portfolio of installment contracts generally turns over in 

35
less than 48 months, and Patterson can adjust the rate we charge on new customer contracts at any time. Therefore, in times where the interest rate markets are not rapidly increasing or decreasing, the average interest rate in the portfolio generally moves with the interest rate markets and thus would parallel the underlying interest rate movement of the pricing built into the sale agreements. In calculating the gain on the contract sales, we use an interest rate curve that approximates the maturity period of the then-outstanding contracts. If increases in the interest rate markets occur, the average interest rate in our contract portfolio may not increase at the same rate, resulting in a reduction of gain on the contracts sales as compared to the gain that would be realized if the average interest rate in our portfolio were to increase at a more similar rate to the interest rate markets.

Patterson estimates that if interest rates changed by 10% during the year, the annual impact would have been less than $1 million to earnings before income taxes.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA