PART I     

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) was incorporated in October 1982. AMR’s operations fall almost entirely in the airline industry. AMR's principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934. At the end of 2008, American provided scheduled jet service to approximately 150 destinations throughout North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia. 

American, AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle) and the AmericanConnection® airlines serve 250 cities in 40 countries with, on average, more than 3,400 daily flights. The combined network fleet numbers approximately 900 aircraft. American Airlines is also a founding member of oneworld® Alliance, which enables member airlines to offer their customers more services and benefits than any member airline can provide individually. These services include a broader route network, opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles across the combined oneworld network and more airport lounges. Together, oneworld members serve nearly 700 destinations in over 150 countries, with 8,500 daily departures. American is also one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard American’s passenger fleet. 

AMR Eagle, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR, owns two regional airlines which do business as "American Eagle” – American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc. (Executive) (collectively, the American Eagle carriers). American also contracts with two independently owned regional airlines, which do business as “AmericanConnection” (the AmericanConnection® carriers). The American Eagle carriers and the AmericanConnection® carriers provide connecting service from ten of American's high-traffic cities to smaller markets throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. 

The AMR Eagle fleet is operated to feed passenger traffic to American pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle under which American receives all passenger revenue from flights and pays AMR Eagle a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to AMR Eagle under the capacity purchase agreement are for various operating expenses of AMR Eagle, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are calculated based on specific operating statistics (e.g. block hours, departures) and others of which are fixed monthly amounts. This capacity purchase agreement was renewed in July 2008. As of December 31, 2008, AMR Eagle operated over 1,400 daily departures, offering scheduled passenger service to over 150 destinations in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean. On a separate company basis, AMR Eagle reported $2.5 billion in revenue and $30 million of income before income taxes in 2008. However, this historical financial information is not indicative of what AMR Eagle’s future results of operations, financial position and cash flows might be if AMR Eagle was a stand-alone entity. 

Recent Events 

The Company recorded a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008 compared to net earnings of $504 million in 2007. These results reflect a dramatic year-over-year increase in fuel prices from an average of $2.13 per gallon in 2007 to an average of $3.03 per gallon in 2008. Fuel expense was the Company’s largest single expense category and the fuel price increase resulted in $2.7 billion in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2008 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed). In addition, the Company paid 11.7 cents more per gallon in 2007 than in 2006, which drove a $268 million negative impact to fuel expense in 2007. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record prices recorded in July 2008, fuel prices remain volatile. Fuel price volatility, additional increases in the price of fuel, and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and its results of operations. 

The significant rise in fuel price was partially offset by higher unit revenues (passenger revenue per available seat mile). Mainline passenger unit revenues increased 7.3 percent in 2008 due to an 8.6 percent increase in passenger yield (passenger revenue per passenger mile) partially offset by a 0.9 point load factor decrease compared to 2007. Although passenger yield showed year-over-year improvement, passenger yield remains essentially flat with 2000 levels, despite cumulative inflation of approximately 25 percent over the same time frame. 

In addition, the Company’s 2008 operating results were impacted by three special items: 

  ·    In the second quarter, the Company announced capacity reductions due to unprecedented high fuel costs and the other challenges facing the industry. In connection with these capacity reductions, the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred, requiring that fixed assets be tested for impairment. As a result of this test, the Company concluded the carrying values of its McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and the Embraer RJ-135 aircraft fleets were no longer recoverable. Consequently, the 2008 results include an impairment charge of $1.1 billion to write these and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values. Also in connection with these capacity reductions, the Company recorded $71 million in expense for employee severance costs and a $33 million expense related to the grounding of leased Airbus A300 aircraft prior to lease expiration. These charges are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.     

  ·    The Company completed the sale of American Beacon Advisors (American Beacon) receiving total proceeds of $442 million and realizing a net gain of $432 million. This transaction is described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.     

  ·    AMR recorded a settlement charge totaling $103 million related to lump sum distributions from the Company’s defined benefit pension plans to pilots who retired. Pilot retirements resulted in $917 million in total lump sum payments to pilot retirees. The charge is further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.     

In August 2008, AMR retired, by purchasing with cash, $75 million of the $300 million principal amount of the 4.25 percent senior convertible notes due 2023 (the 4.25 Notes). In September 2008, the remaining holders of the 4.25 Notes exercised their elective put rights and the Company purchased and retired these notes at a price equal to 100 percent of their principal amount, totaling $225 million. Under the terms of the 4.25 Notes, the Company had the option to pay the purchase price with cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock, and the Company elected to pay for the 4.25 Notes solely with cash. 

AMR continues to take steps to strengthen its balance sheet, and in the third quarter of 2008 issued 27.1 million shares of common stock generating net proceeds of $294 million. The Company reduced long-term debt and capital lease obligations (including current maturities) by $185 million during the year and ended the year with $3.1 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $459 million in restricted cash and short-term investments. In 2008, American also raised approximately $500 million under a loan secured by aircraft, due in installments through 2015, and raised approximately $424 million utilizing various transactions including additional loans secured by aircraft and sale leasebacks of certain aircraft, including regional aircraft. 

In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with the UK carrier British Airways and the Spanish carrier Iberia, providing for commercial cooperation by the carriers on flights between North America (consisting of the United States, Canada and Mexico) and Europe (consisting of the European Union, Switzerland and Norway) and beyond. The agreement contemplates the pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs on transatlantic flights, expanded codesharing on each other’s flights, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in the areas of planning, marketing and certain operations. The agreement was signed in connection with an application to the U.S. Department of Transportation by the carriers for antitrust immunity to permit global cooperation. The application also included the Finnish carrier, Finnair, and the Jordanian carrier, Royal Jordanian. If granted (which cannot be assured), antitrust immunity would permit the five carriers, all of whom are members of the oneworld airline alliance, to deepen cooperation on a bilateral and multilateral basis. Implementation of the joint business agreement and related arrangements is subject to conditions, including various U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements, and other approvals. Agencies from which regulatory approvals must be obtained may impose requirements or limitations as a condition of granting such approvals, such as requiring divestiture of routes, gates, slots or other assets. 

The Company continued its fleet renewal strategy during 2008 as it entered into amendments to its 737-800 purchase agreement with the Boeing Company. Giving effect to the amendments and considering the impact of delays caused by the recent machinist strike at Boeing, the Company is now committed to take delivery of a total of 29 737-800 aircraft in 2009, 39 737-800 aircraft in 2010 and eight 737-800 aircraft in 2011. These orders are in addition to eleven 737-800 aircraft and seven Boeing 777 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2013 – 2016. 

The Company also entered into a new purchase agreement with Boeing for the acquisition of 42 Boeing 787-9 aircraft. The Boeing 787-9 purchase agreement contains certain contingency provisions, including provisions which allow American to cancel the contract under certain circumstances, which are described in the Liquidity and Capital Resources subsection of Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. 

The Company’s ability to return to profitability and its ability to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of factors, many of which are largely beyond the Company’s control. Certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business and financial results are discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A. In addition, most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have filed for bankruptcy in recent years and have used this process to significantly reduce contractual labor and other costs. In order to remain competitive and to improve its financial condition, the Company must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce its costs. Although the Company has a number of initiatives underway to address its cost and revenue challenges, the ultimate success of these initiatives is not known at this time and cannot be assured. It will be very difficult for the Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis and return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not improve substantially and if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels. 

Competition 

Domestic Air Transportation The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any U.S. air carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service. American operates five hubs: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O'Hare, Miami, St. Louis and San Juan, Puerto Rico. United Air Lines (United) also has a hub operation at Chicago O'Hare. 

The American Eagle® carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s hubs and certain other major airports – Boston, Los Angeles, Raleigh/Durham and New York’s LaGuardia (LGA) and John F. Kennedy International (JFK) Airports. The AmericanConnection® carriers provide connecting service to American through St. Louis. American's competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations. 

On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: AirTran Airways (Air Tran), Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Continental Airlines (Continental), Delta Air Lines (including Northwest Airlines) (Delta), Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue), Southwest Airlines (Southwest), United, US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and their affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. 

Most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 11) in recent years. It is possible that one or more of our competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11. Successful reorganizations present the Company with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing contracts. 

International Air Transportation In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company's operating revenues from foreign operations were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2008, and 37 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in both 2007 and 2006. Additional information about the Company's foreign operations is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 

In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers' rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other's markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers – including American – have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Brussels Airlines, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Dragonair, Deutsche Bahn German Rail, EL AL, EVA Air, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Jet Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malév Hungarian Airlines, Mexicana, Qantas Airways, Royal Jordanian, SNCF French Rail and Vietnam Airlines. 

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Lan Airlines, Iberia, Qantas, Japan Airlines, Malév Hungarian, Dragonair, and Royal Jordanian. Mexicana Airlines has accepted an invitation to join oneworld and formal entry into the alliance is anticipated in 2009. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers' frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers' airport lounge facilities. Several of American's major competitors are members of marketing/operational alliances that enjoy antitrust immunity. American and British Airways, the largest members of the oneworld alliance, are restricted in their relationship because they lack antitrust immunity. They are, therefore, at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other alliances that have antitrust immunity. 

In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia providing for commercial cooperation by the carriers on flights between North America and Europe and beyond. The agreement was signed in connection with an application to the U.S. Department of Transportation by the three carriers, and Finnair and Royal Jordanian, for antitrust immunity to permit global cooperation. If granted (which cannot be assured), antitrust immunity will permit the five carriers, all of whom are members of the oneworld airline alliance, to deepen cooperation on a bilateral and multilateral basis. 

Price Competition The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors' fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity. 

In recent years, a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) have entered the domestic market. Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have recently reorganized under Chapter 11, including United, Delta and US Airways. These cost reduction efforts and bankruptcy reorganizations have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs. In the past, lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions. If fare reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields (passenger revenue per passenger mile) and/or cost reductions, the Company’s operating results will be negatively impacted. 

Regulation 

General The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. The DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. 

The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is progressing toward the completion of over 200 airworthiness directives including Boeing fuel tank safety directives, Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 pylon improvements, McDonnell Douglas MD-80 over-wing frame and aft pressure bulkhead improvements, Boeing 737 aft pressure bulkhead improvements and Airbus A300 fuselage structural improvements. Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. 

The Department of Justice (DOJ) has jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements. 

On December 21, 2007, a New York federal judge dismissed the Air Transport Association‘s (ATA) challenge to a recently enacted New York law requiring airlines to provide certain services to onboard passengers whose flights are delayed on the ground prior to takeoff for more than three hours. The ATA appealed the dismissal of the challenge. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and ordered the District Court to enter judgment for the ATA on the grounds that the legislation was preempted by federal law. The law, which was briefly in effect, was declared invalid. 

International International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company's operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in certain international markets. 

In April 2007, the United States and the European Union (EU) approved an “open skies” air services agreement that provides airlines from the United States and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the United States and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport. The provisions of the agreement took effect on March 30, 2008. Under the agreement, every U.S. and EU airline is authorized to operate between airports in the United States and Heathrow. Notwithstanding the open skies agreement, Heathrow is a slot-controlled airport. Only three airlines besides American were previously allowed to provide service to Heathrow. The agreement has resulted in the Company facing increased competition in serving Heathrow, where the Company has lost market share. In addition, the Company is facing additional competition in other European markets. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Security In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the United States. The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights. 

Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000. In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers. 

Airline Fares Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.

Airport Access  Historically, the FAA designated JFK, LGA and Washington Reagan airports as high-density traffic airports. The high-density rule limited the number of Instrument Flight Rule operations - take-offs and landings - permitted per hour and required that a “take-off/landing slot right” support each operation. The high density rule was repealed for JFK and LGA; however both airports remain subject to operating restrictions. 

In order to remedy congestion at LGA due to elimination of slot restrictions, the FAA, in 2007, placed caps on total operations and required carriers at LGA to hold operating authorizations. In January 2009, the FAA announced a voluntary program at LGA aimed at reducing hourly scheduled operations at LGA from 75 to 71, which is expected to help ease congestion and delay without materially affecting carrier operations. 

In December 2007, the United States Department of Transportation reached an agreement with domestic airlines to ease congestion at JFK by shifting the timing of certain flights. Such re-timing has not had a significant impact on the Company’s flights to or from JFK.  

In late 2008, the FAA issued new rules for carriers operating at LGA, JFK and Newark that would fundamentally change the manner in which operating authorizations are held and distributed at those airports. Every departure and landing would require an authorization and existing carriers would be requested to reduce service to provide authorizations for auction to other carriers without increasing total airport operations. The Company, along with numerous other carriers and interested parties, opposed adoption of these rules. Immediately after the rules were issued, the ATA and others petitioned for judicial review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit challenging the rules and seeking a stay (preliminary injunction) against their implementation. The court granted the stay motion, thus blocking the rules from taking effect, pending the court’s ultimate decision on the merits. Following the change in Administrations on January 20, 2009, the ATA submitted a letter to the new Secretary of Transportation urging that the rules be withdrawn. If the DOT does not withdraw the rules, or if the court challenge is unsuccessful, the new rules could require the Company to alter the routes and services it currently operates at LGA, JFK and Newark with potentially material adverse effects. 

In 2006, the FAA issued an order requiring that carriers hold arrival authorizations to land during certain hours at Chicago O’Hare. That order limits the purchase or sale of arrival authorizations. The Company has not experienced any significant adverse impact from this order. In addition, the DOT is considering imposing a schedule reduction order at Newark (separately from the FAA action above), which could include slot controls at that airport. The Company does not anticipate being materially affected if such an order is imposed. 

The high-density rule remains in effect at Washington Reagan. Legislation has been introduced to abolish the perimeter rule at that airport, which (with exceptions) limits nonstop flights to a distance of 1,250 miles. Some foreign airports, including Heathrow, a major European destination for American, also require slot allocations.  

Although the Company is constrained by slots, it currently has sufficient slot authorizations to operate its existing flights. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or obtain slots in the future to expand its operations or change its schedules because, among other factors, slot allocations are subject to changes in government policies. 

In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law. The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic areas. Among other things, the Act eventually eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field. The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field. 

Environmental Matters The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company's operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements. 

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. 

Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU recently approved measures that impose emissions limits on airlines with operations to, from or within the EU as part of an emissions trading system beginning in 2012. The Company is currently assessing the potential costs of the EU measures. Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S. or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. 

The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. The Company anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial. The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial. 

Labor 

The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 26 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008. The average full-time equivalent number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 84,100. 

The majority of these employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. 

In April 2003, American reached agreements (the Labor Agreements) with its three major unions - the Allied Pilots Association (the APA) which represents American’s pilots, the Transport Workers Union of America (AFL-CIO) (the TWU), which represents seven different employee groups, and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (the APFA), which represents American’s flight attendants. The Labor Agreements substantially moderated the labor costs associated with the employees represented by the unions. In conjunction with the Labor Agreements, American also implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel, including officers and other management (the Management Reductions). The Labor Agreements became amendable in 2008 (although the parties agreed that they could begin the negotiations process as early as 2006). In 2006, American and the APA commenced negotiations under the RLA. In April of 2008, following a request by the APA, a mediator was appointed by the National Mediation Board. The parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time. 

Also in 2006, American and the TWU commenced negotiations with respect only to dispatchers, one of the seven groups at American represented by the TWU. Subsequently, following a request by the parties, a mediator was appointed by the NMB for the dispatcher negotiations. Thereafter, in November 2007, American and the TWU commenced negotiations under the RLA with respect to the other employee groups represented by the TWU. Direct negotiations between American and the TWU employees with respect to those other groups continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed with the NMB for mediation with respect to the fleet service, stores, ground school instructors, and simulator technician groups of employees. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. Then in January, 2009, the TWU applied to the NMB for the appointment of a mediator with respect to the mechanics and the technical specialists. The NMB will appoint a mediator to assist those negotiations, as well. 

American and the APFA commenced negotiations in the first half of 2008. Direct negotiations between the parties continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed an application to the NMB asking that a mediator be appointed. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. 

The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), which represents American Eagle pilots, reached agreement with American Eagle effective September 1, 1997, to have all of the pilots of the American Eagle® carriers (currently American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc.) covered by a single contract. This agreement lasts until January 1, 2013. The agreement provides to the parties the right to seek limited changes in 2000, 2004, 2008 and 2012. If the parties are unable to agree on the limited changes, the agreement provides that any issues would be resolved by interest arbitration, without the exercise of self-help (such as a strike). ALPA and American Eagle negotiated a tentative agreement in 2000, but that agreement failed in ratification. Thereafter, the parties participated in interest arbitration. The interest arbitration panel determined the limited changes that should be made and these changes were appropriately effected. In 2004 and in 2008, the parties successfully negotiated limited changes. The pilot agreement is amendable January 1, 2013; however, the parties have agreed that contract openers may be exchanged 120 days prior to that date. 

The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) represents the flight attendants of the American Eagle carriers. The current agreement between the American Eagle carriers and the AFA is amendable on October 27, 2009; however, the parties have agreed that contract openers may be exchanged 90 days prior to that date. The other union employees at the American Eagle carriers are covered by separate agreements with the TWU. The agreements between the American Eagle carriers and the TWU were amendable beginning on October 1, 2007, and the parties commenced negotiations. In January, 2009, an application for mediation was filed with the NMB. A mediator from the NMB will be assisting the parties. 

Fuel 

The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. The Company's fuel costs and consumption for the years 2006 through 2008 were: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

The impact of fuel price changes on the Company and its competitors depends on various factors, including hedging strategies. The Company has a fuel hedging program in which it enters into jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts to dampen the impact of the volatility of jet fuel prices. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s fuel hedging program reduced the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $380 million, $239 million and $97 million, respectively. As of January 2009, the Company had cash flow hedges, with option contracts, primarily heating oil collars and call options, covering approximately 35 percent of its estimated 2009 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2009 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.59 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.94 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). As a result of the rapid decline in energy prices in the second half of 2008 and certain other events, the Company estimates that during the next twelve months it will reclassify from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings approximately $711 million in net incremental expenses related to its fuel derivative hedges (based on prices as of December 31, 2008). A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel. 

Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Frequent Flyer Program 

American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 62 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, American Eagle, and the AmericanConnection® carriers or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. 

American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. The Company believes that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2008, AAdvantage had approximately 62 million total members, and 607 billion outstanding award miles. During 2008, AAdvantage issued approximately 196 billion miles, of which approximately one-half were sold to program participants. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under

 Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.

Other Matters 

Seasonality and Other Factors The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year, since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2008 is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions. 

Insurance The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. 

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines until March 31, 2009, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. Beyond that date, the Secretary of Transportation has the authority to provide commercial war-risk insurance until May 31, 2009. If the U.S. government does not extend the policy beyond March 31, 2009 (or beyond May 31, 2009 if the Secretary has exercised the authority to extend coverage to that date), or if the U.S. government at anytime thereafter ceases to provide such insurance, or reduces the coverage provided by such insurance, the Company will attempt to purchase similar coverage with narrower scope from commercial insurers at an additional cost. To the extent this coverage is not available at commercially reasonable rates, the Company would be adversely affected. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the premium increases immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected. 

Other Government Matters In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted. 

Available Information The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. Upon request, copies of the charters or the Governance Policies are available at no cost. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS