PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

General Development of Business  

AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME). The common stock of AMETEK is a component of the S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indices.  

Website Access to Information  

The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com (in the “Investors — Financial News and Information” section), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has posted, free of charge, to the investor information portion of its website, its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Such documents are also available in published form, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312.  

Products and Services  

The Company markets its products worldwide through two operating groups, the Electronic Instruments Group (“EIG”) and the Electromechanical Group (“EMG”). EIG builds monitoring, testing, calibration and display devices for the process, aerospace, industrial, power and medical markets. EMG produces highly engineered electromechanical connectors for hermetic (moisture-proof) applications, specialty metals for niche markets and brushless air-moving motors, blowers and heat exchangers. End markets include aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical, office products and other industrial markets. The Company continues to grow through strategic acquisitions focused on differentiated niche markets in instrumentation and electromechanical devices.  

Competitive Strengths  

Management believes that the Company has several significant competitive advantages that assist it in sustaining and enhancing its market positions. Its principal strengths include:  

Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains a significant share in many of its targeted niche markets because of its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. In EIG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments within the process, aerospace, industrial and power instrumentation markets. In EMG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments including aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical, office products and air-moving motors for the floorcare market.  

Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to develop innovative products and maintain leading market positions. Historically, the Company has grown by extending its technical expertise into the manufacture of customized products for its customers, as well as through strategic acquisitions. EIG competes primarily on  

2  

Table of Contents 

 the basis of product innovation in several highly specialized instrumentation markets, including process measurement, aerospace, power, heavy-vehicle dashboard and medical instrumentation. EMG’s differentiated businesses focus on developing customized products for specialized applications in aerospace and defense, medical, business machines and other industrial applications. In its floorcare and specialty motor business, EMG focuses on low-cost design and manufacturing, while enhancing motor-blower performance through advances in power, efficiency, lighter weight and quieter operation.  

Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. EMG has motor manufacturing plants in China, the Czech Republic, Mexico and Brazil to lower its costs and achieve strategic proximity to its customers, providing the opportunity to increase international sales and market share. Certain of the Company’s electronic instrument businesses have relocated manufacturing operations to low-cost locales. Furthermore, strategic acquisitions and joint ventures in Europe, North America and Asia have resulted in additional cost savings and synergies through the consolidation of operations, product lines and distribution channels, which benefits both operating groups.  

Experienced Management Team. Another key component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and its commitment to the performance of the Company. AMETEK’s senior management has extensive experience, averaging approximately 26 years with the Company, and is financially committed to the Company’s success through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.  

Business Strategy  

AMETEK’s objectives are to increase the Company’s earnings and financial returns through a combination of operational and financial strategies. Those operational strategies include Operational Excellence, New Product Development, Global and Market Expansion and Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances programs designed to achieve double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. To support those operational objectives, financial initiatives have been, or may be, undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases. AMETEK’s commitment to earnings growth is reflected in its continued implementation of cost-reduction programs designed to achieve the Company’s long-term best-cost objectives.  

AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening the Company’s competitive position across its businesses. Through its Operational Excellence strategy, the Company seeks to reduce production costs and improve its market positions. The strategy has played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. AMETEK believes that Operational Excellence, which focuses on Six Sigma process improvements, global sourcing and lean manufacturing and also emphasizes team building and a participative management culture, has enabled the Company to improve operating efficiencies and product quality, increase customer satisfaction and yield higher cash flow from operations, while lowering operating and administrative costs and shortening manufacturing cycle times.  

New Product Development. New products are essential to AMETEK’s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has consistently maintained its investment in new product development, and, in 2011, added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across each of its businesses. Its most recent product introductions include:  

   •    CAMECA EX-300 metrology tool that utilizes a unique surface profiling technique developed specifically for advanced semiconductor fabrication;  

3  

Table of Contents 

   •    Pittman® high-performance slotless, brushless DC motors in autoclavable versions for medical instruments, dental drills and other compact medical devices;  

   •    SPECTROBLUE™ high-performance spectrometer with a robust design and simplified operation for high-accuracy analysis of metals and other materials;  

   •    GEMCO® 955 eBrik linear displacement transducer for accurate and reliable position sensing for a wide range of factory automation applications;  

   •    Talyrond 500 multi-functional metrology tool for roundness, roughness and surface finish analysis used in ultraprecision machining applications;  

   •    Eclipse II™ high-frequency industrial battery charging system that provides high-efficiency battery charging of fork lifts and other electric vehicles;  

   •    MINIFLASH™ Touch flash point tester that provides fast screening of diesel, other fuels and flammable liquids utilizing a user friendly touch-screen design;  

   •    Haydon Kerk® SRA04 Motorized ScrewRail linear actuator that combines a precision rolled lead screw with a compact stepper motor for a range of precision motion control applications;  

   •    Chatillon® digital force gauges that include a full-color display and Bluetooth connectivity for a host of automotive, biomedical, general manufacturing, military and pharmaceutical applications;  

   •    Arc Series robust thermal imaging cameras that provide accurate high-temperature thermal profiles for highly demanding industrial applications;  

   •    C110 Grade Pfinodal alloys made with proprietary powder metal technology and patented forging techniques for demanding industrial applications such as oil and gas exploration and production; and  

   •    Lloyd Instruments™ LS1 advanced materials tester used to determine the performance characteristics of plastics, packaging, medical devices, automotive electronics, textiles, rubber and pharmaceuticals among others.  

Global and Market Expansion. AMETEK’s largest presence outside the United States is in Europe, where it has operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Italy, the Czech Republic, Romania, France, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands. These operations provide design, engineering and manufacturing capability, product-line breadth, enhanced European distribution channels and low-cost production. AMETEK has a leading market position in European floorcare motors and a significant presence in many of its instrument businesses. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by building and expanding low-cost electric motor and instrument plants in Reynosa, Mexico and motor manufacturing plants near Sao Paulo, Brazil and in Shanghai, China. It also continues to achieve geographic expansion and market expansion in Asia through joint ventures in China, Taiwan and Japan and a direct sales and marketing presence in Singapore, Japan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, India, the Middle East and Russia.  

Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. The Company continues to pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines, improve its market share positions and increase earnings through sales growth and operational efficiencies at the acquired businesses. Since the beginning of 2007, through December 31, 2011, the Company has completed 27 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1 billion, including five acquisitions in 2011 (see “Recent Acquisitions”). Through these and prior acquisitions, the Company’s management team has gained  

4  

Table of Contents 

 considerable experience in successfully acquiring and integrating new businesses. The Company intends to continue to pursue this acquisition strategy.  

2011 OVERVIEW  

Operating Performance  

In 2011, AMETEK achieved sales of $3.0 billion, an increase of 21% from 2010 and established records for net sales, operating income, operating income margins, net income, diluted earnings per share and operating cash flow. The Company achieved these results from strong internal growth in each of the Company’s two reportable segments, as well as contributions from recent acquisitions.  

Financing  

In September 2011, AMETEK completed a new five-year revolving credit facility with a total borrowing capacity of $700 million, which excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $200 million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the revolving credit agreement under certain conditions. The new revolving credit facility replaced a $450 million total borrowing capacity revolving credit facility, which excluded a $100 million accordion feature, that was due to expire in June 2012. The new revolving credit facility provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its successful acquisition strategy.  

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company issued a 55 million Swiss franc ($59.0 million) 2.44% senior note due December 2021.  

Recent Acquisitions  

The Company spent $474.9 million in cash, net of cash acquired, for five business acquisitions in 2011.  

In April 2011, the Company acquired Avicenna Technology, Inc. (“Avicenna”), a supplier of custom, fine-featured components used in the medical device industry. Avicenna is part of EMG.  

In May 2011, the Company acquired Coining Holding Company (“Coining”), a leading supplier of custom-shaped metal preforms, microstampings and bonding wire solutions for interconnect applications in microelectronics packaging and assembly. Coining is part of EMG.  

In October 2011, the Company acquired Reichert Technologies, a manufacturer of analytical instruments and diagnostic devices for the eye care market. Reichert Technologies is part of EIG.  

In October 2011, the Company acquired EM Test (Switzerland) GmbH, a manufacturer of advanced monitoring, testing, calibrating and display instruments in the electrical immunity testing and emissions measurement market. EM Test is part of EIG.  

In December 2011, the Company acquired Technical Manufacturing Corporation (“TMC”), a world leader in high-performance vibration isolation systems and optical test benches used to isolate highly sensitive instruments for the microelectronics, life sciences, photonics and ultra-precision manufacturing industries. TMC is part of EIG.  

Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales  

Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

5  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s international sales increased 24% to $1,501.1 million in 2011. The increase in international sales resulted from overall higher sales growth, driven by continued strong expansion into Asia, as well as growth in Europe, and includes the effect of foreign currency translation. The Company experienced increases in export sales of products manufactured in the United States, as well as increased sales from overseas operations. International sales represented 50.2% of consolidated net sales in 2011 compared with 49.0% in 2010.  

Description of Business  

The products and markets of each reportable segment are described below:  

EIG  

EIG is comprised of a group of differentiated businesses. EIG applies its specialized market focus and technology to manufacture instruments used for testing, monitoring, calibration and display for the process, aerospace, industrial and power markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including aerospace engine sensors, heavy-vehicle instrument panels, analytical instrumentation, level measurement products, power instruments and pressure gauges. It has joint venture operations in China, Taiwan and Japan. EIG’s 2011 net sales to customers outside the United States were 56%.  

At December 31, 2011, EIG employed approximately 6,100 people, of whom approximately 800 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. EIG had 56 operating facilities: 35 in the United States, seven in the United Kingdom, five in Germany, three in France, two in Switzerland and one each in Argentina, Austria, Canada and Denmark at December 31, 2011. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in China and Mexico.  

Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Process and analytical measurement and analysis instruments represented 66% of EIG’s 2011 net sales. These include: oxygen, moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission monitors; spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision pumping systems; and force-measurement and materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s focus is on the process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution and semiconductor manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments are also used for precision measurement in a number of other applications including radiation detection for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, materials analysis, nanotechnology research and other test and measurement applications.  

TMC, acquired in December 2011, serves the leading manufacturers of life sciences, photonics and semiconductor equipment with a broad range of custom active piezoelectric vibration cancellation systems, based on their patented active piezo technology. TMC also supplies passive vibration cancellation systems, optical test tables, acoustic isolation hoods and magnetic isolation hoods. TMC is an excellent fit with the Company’s high-end analytical instruments businesses and further broadens AMETEK’s product offerings and expertise in ultra precision manufacturing.  

Reichert Technologies, acquired in October 2011, is a leader and innovator in high-technology instruments used by ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians for vision correction and the screening and diagnosis of eye diseases such as glaucoma and macular degeneration. Reichert Technologies expands AMETEK’s business in the medical market.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Atlas Material Testing Technology LLC (“Atlas”), acquired in November 2010, has products which include weather exposure test systems, corrosion-testing instruments, specialty lighting systems, and large-scale weathering test chambers. In addition, Atlas offers indoor laboratory and outdoor testing services, photovoltaic and solar testing and consulting. Atlas provides the Company with another growth platform in the materials testing equipment market and broadens AMETEK’s presence in the fast-growing photovoltaic testing market.  

Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Power and industrial instrumentation markets represented 24% of EIG’s 2011 net sales.  

AMETEK’s power businesses provide analytical instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide variety of industrial settings.  

EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power transducers and meters, event and transient recorders, annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure, monitor and record variables in the transmission and distribution of electric power.  

EIG’s Solidstate Controls business designs and manufactures uninterruptible power supply systems for the process and power generation industries. EIG also manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines and for boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process and marine industries worldwide.  

EIG’s programmable power business is a leader in programmable AC and DC power sources and pursues growth opportunities in the highly attractive electronic test and measurement equipment market.  

EM Test, acquired in October 2011, is a global leader in equipment used to perform electrical immunity and electromagnetic compatibility testing. EM Test manufactures a full line of conducted electromagnetic compatibility test equipment, including electrical fast transient generators, electrostatic discharge simulators, surge generators, waveform simulators and multifunctional generators. Its products are used in test applications by a wide range of industries to ensure that electronic and electrical products are not susceptible to external electromagnetic disturbances and do not generate electromagnetic disturbances that might affect other products or instruments.  

Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Aerospace products represented 10% of EIG’s 2011 net sales. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its products have a technological and/or cost advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line, used in a wide range of aerospace applications.  

Aerospace products include: airborne data systems; turbine engine temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring systems; indicators; displays; fuel and fluid measurement products; sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers. EIG serves all segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter aircraft and commercial airliners, as well as the military market.  

Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s 50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with global commercial aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”). Its customers are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines and other aerospace system integrators. It also serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Customers  

EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EIG’s 2011 net sales were made to its five largest customers.  

EMG  

EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including highly engineered motors, blowers, fans, heat exchangers, connectors, and other electromechanical products or systems for commercial and military aerospace applications, defense, medical equipment, business machines, computers and other power or industrial applications. In its floorcare and specialty motor business, the Company believes it is an industry leader in the development and production of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for OEMs of floorcare products and other specialty applications. EMG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. EMG’s 2011 net sales to customers outside the United States were 43%.  

At December 31, 2011, EMG employed approximately 5,900 people, of whom approximately 1,300 were covered by collective bargaining agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). EMG had 58 operating facilities: 34 in the United States, nine in the United Kingdom, three in France, two each in China, Czech Republic, Italy and Mexico and one each in Brazil, Malaysia, Morocco and Taiwan at December 31, 2011.  

Differentiated Businesses  

Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses represented 82% of EMG’s net sales in 2011 and are comprised of the technical motors and systems businesses and the engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses.  

Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

Technical motors and systems, representing 45% of EMG’s 2011 net sales, consist of brushless motors, blowers and pumps, as well as other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, business machines, computer equipment, mass transit vehicles, medical equipment, power, and industrial applications.  

EMG produces electronically commutated (brushless) motors, blowers and pumps that offer long life, reliability and near maintenance-free operation. These motor-blower systems and heat exchangers are used for thermal management and other applications on a wide variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles, and are used increasingly in medical and other applications, in which their long life, and spark-free and reliable operation is very important. These motors provide cooling and ventilation for business machines, computers and mass transit vehicles.  

Haydon Enterprises, acquired in July 2010, complements the Company’s highly differentiated technical motor business, which shares common markets, customers and distribution channels, and places AMETEK in a unique position as the premier industry provider of high-end linear and rotary motion control solutions.  

EMG also serves the commercial and military aerospace third-party maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) market. These services are provided on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Singapore.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

Engineered materials, interconnects and packaging products represented 37% of EMG’s 2011 net sales. AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products. It produces stainless steel and nickel clad alloys; stainless steel, cobalt and nickel alloy powders; metal strip; specialty shaped and electronic wire; and advanced metal matrix composites used in electronic thermal management. Its products are used in automotive, appliance, medical and surgical, aerospace, telecommunications, marine and general industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer relationships.  

Coining, acquired in May 2011, is a global leader in custom-shaped preforms, microstampings and wire used for joining electronic circuitry, packaging microelectronics and providing thermal protection and electric conductivity for a wide range of electronic devices. Coining’s products are used in highly engineered applications for the RF/microwave, photonics, medical, aerospace and defense, and general electronics industries.  

Avicenna, acquired in April 2011, provides the Company with additional expertise in producing fine-featured catheter and other medical components for leads, guide wires and custom medical assemblies. Avicenna complements the Company’s medical device market businesses and is an excellent fit with its Technical Services for Electronics (“TSE”) business.  

TSE, acquired in June 2010, expands the Company’s position in the medical device market and is an excellent fit with the HCC Industries division, which manufactures highly engineered electronic interconnects and microelectronics packaging for sophisticated electronic applications.  

The combination of Avicenna and TSE positions AMETEK as the only medical interconnects provider with integrated capabilities for the catheter, cardiac and neurostimulation markets.  

Floorcare and Specialty Motor Markets and Products  

Floorcare and specialty motor markets represented 18% of EMG’s 2011 net sales, where it sells air-moving electric motors to many of the world’s major floorcare OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for a full range of floorcare products, ranging from hand-held, canister and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for commercial and industrial applications.  

The Company also manufactures a variety of specialty motors used in a wide range of products, such as household and personal care appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws, leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.  

EMG has been successful in directing a portion of its global floorcare marketing at vertically integrated vacuum cleaner manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of their motor production. By purchasing their motors from EMG, these customers are able to realize economic and operational advantages by reducing or discontinuing their own motor production and avoiding the capital investment required to keep their motor manufacturing current with changing technologies and market demands.  

Customers  

EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EMG’s 2011 net sales were made to its five largest customers.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Marketing  

The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the division level. EIG makes significant use of distributors and sales representatives in marketing its products, as well as direct sales in some of its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors both in the United States and in other countries.  

Competition  

In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly competitive. The principal elements of competition for the Company’s products are product technology, distribution, quality, service and price.  

In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks among the leading U.S. producers of certain measuring and control instruments. It also is a leader in the U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially its pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation products. Both of these businesses have several strong competitors. In the process and analytical instruments market, numerous companies in each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary depending on the specific market niche.  

EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a limited number of companies in each of their markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes. In its floorcare and specialty motor businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the U.S. floorcare market from independent manufacturers. Competition is strong from Asian motor manufacturers that serve both the U.S. and the European floorcare markets. Global vacuum motor production is continually being shifted to Asia where AMETEK has a smaller market position. There is potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers of floorcare products that produce their own motor-blowers. Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.  

Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

The Company’s backlog of unfilled orders by business segment was as follows at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The higher backlog at December 31, 2011 was due to higher order levels and the acquired backlog of 2011 acquisitions.  

Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2011, approximately 88% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2012. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Availability of Raw Materials  

The Company’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

Research, Development and Engineering  

The Company is committed to research, development and engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop potential new and improved products or enhance existing products. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $137.6 million, $112.1 million and $101.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $6.1 million, $6.4 million and $5.5 million, respectively. These amounts included net Company-funded research and development expenses of $78.0 million, $56.8 million and $50.5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.  

Environmental Matters  

Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in the section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental Matters” and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its business segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to the Company’s overall operations.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2011, the Company employed approximately 12,200 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 2,100 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company has two collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2012, which cover less than 100 employees. The Company expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.  

Working Capital Practices  

The Company does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Customers generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and are responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors