ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

American Airlines Group Inc. (AAG) a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are American, a Delaware corporation, and, as of December 9, 2013, US Airways Group, a Delaware corporation. AAG was formed in 1982 under the name AMR Corporation (AMR) as the parent company of American which was founded in 1934. US Airways Group was formed in 1982 and its origins trace back to the formation of All American Aviation in 1939. AMR changed its name to American Airlines Group Inc. on December 9, 2013. Virtually all of AAG's operations fall within the airline industry.

AAG's and American's principal executive offices are located at 4333 Amon Carter Boulevard, Fort Worth, Texas 76155. AAG's and American's telephone number is 817-967-1234 and their Internet address is www.aa.com. Information contained on AAG's website is not and should not be deemed a part of this report or any other report or filing filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Chapter 11 Reorganization

On November 29, 2011 (the Petition Date), AMR Corporation (referred to as AMR prior to December 9, 2013), its principal subsidiary, American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors), filed voluntary petitions for relief (the Chapter 11 Cases) under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). On October 21, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the Confirmation Order) approving and confirming the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization (as amended, the Plan).

On December 9, 2013 (the Effective Date), the Debtors consummated their reorganization pursuant to the Plan, principally through the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the Merger Agreement), dated as of February 13, 2013, by and among AMR, AMR Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub) and US Airways Group, pursuant to which Merger Sub merged with and into US Airways Group (the Merger), with US Airways Group surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR following the Merger. As noted above, immediately following the Merger closing, AMR changed its name to American Airlines Group Inc.

As previously reported, in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, trading in AMR’s common stock and certain debt securities on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was suspended on January 5, 2012, and AMR’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the SEC from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, AMR’s common stock began trading under the symbol "AAMRQ" (CUSIP 001765106) on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group. Pursuant to the Plan, and in accordance with the Merger Agreement, on the Effective Date (i) all existing shares of AAG’s old common stock formerly traded under the symbol "AAMRQ" were canceled and (ii) the Company was authorized to issue up to approximately 544 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AAG (AAG Common Stock) by operation of the Plan (excluding shares of AAG Common Stock issuable pursuant to the Merger Agreement). On the Effective Date, the AAG Common Stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "AAL" and AAMRQ ceased trading on the OTCQB marketplace. In addition, AAG’s Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 (the AAG Series A Preferred Stock), was authorized for trading and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "AALCP." 

Upon emergence from Chapter 11, the Company issued approximately 53 million shares of AAG Common Stock to the Company’s old equity holders and certain of the Debtors’ employees and 168 million shares of AAG Series A Preferred Stock, which is mandatorily convertible into new AAG Common Stock during the 120-day period after the Effective Date, to certain creditors and employees of the Debtors (including shares deposited in the Disputed Claims Reserve (as defined in the Plan)). Holders of AAMRQ received, for each share of AMR common stock, an initial distribution of approximately 0.0665 shares of the AAG Common Stock in connection with the occurrence of the Effective Date. AAMRQ holders, and those deemed to be treated as such in connection with the elections made pursuant to the Plan, have received and may continue to receive additional distributions of shares of AAG Common Stock based on the trading price of AAG Common Stock during the 120 day period after the Effective Date and the total amount of allowed claims, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Plan. On the Effective Date, the adjusted total Double-Dip General Unsecured Claims (as defined in the Plan) was approximately $2.45 billion, the Allowed Single-Dip General Unsecured Claims (as defined in the Plan) were approximately $2.45 billion and the Disputed Claims Reserve (as defined in the Plan) was approximately $755 million.

5

During its Chapter 11 restructuring, AMR and the other Debtors took numerous steps to become more cost competitive in the airline industry. These measures included steps to realize labor cost savings and improve managerial efficiencies, to reconfigure their fleet, and to realize other economies. Through the process under Section 1113 of the Bankruptcy Code and consensual negotiations with its labor unions, American and AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle) entered into new restructured collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with each of their respective union groups. The Debtors also froze their four defined benefit pension plans, and terminated the pilot variable income retirement plan, putting in their place a revised defined contribution retirement benefit plan. The Debtors also amended the pilots’ defined benefit pension plan to eliminate lump-sum and similar installment forms of benefit payments from such plan.

The Debtors also took significant actions to reduce non-labor related liabilities on their balance sheets. Specifically, the Debtors rejected or renegotiated financing on more than 400 aircraft, and evaluated and/or renegotiated over 700 real estate leases and over 9,000 vendor contracts. Importantly, during their restructuring, the Debtors successfully implemented their fleet renewal strategy. The Debtors evaluated their fleet based on then-current rates and market values, required maintenance, and the need to phase out older aircraft to achieve necessary fleet efficiencies.

See Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock And Related Stockholder Matters, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 2 and Note 4 to AAG's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8A and Note 2 to American's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8B for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases and the Merger.

Merger

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and consistent with the Plan, each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of US Airways Group was converted into the right to receive one share of AAG Common Stock. The aggregate number of shares of AAG Common Stock issuable in the Merger to holders of US Airways Group equity instruments (including stockholders, holders of convertible notes, optionees, and holders of restricted stock units (RSUs)) represented 28% of the diluted equity ownership of AAG. The remaining 72% diluted equity ownership in AAG (up to approximately 544 million shares) is distributable, pursuant to the Plan (see "Chapter 11 - Emergence" above) to stakeholders, labor unions, and certain employees of AMR and the other Debtors and such 72% of the diluted equity ownership of AAG includes all shares of AAG Common Stock that are or may become issuable upon conversion of shares of AAG Series A Preferred Stock such that the aggregate number of shares of AAG Common Stock issuable under the Plan will not exceed 72% of the diluted equity ownership of AAG as of the time of the Merger.

In connection with the completion of the Merger, the NYSE suspended trading in the US Airways Group common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the US Airways Group Common Stock), prior to the opening of the market on December 9, 2013. The NYSE also filed with the SEC a Form 25 Notification of Removal from Listing and/or Registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, to delist the US Airways Group Common Stock from the NYSE and terminate registration of the US Airways Group Common Stock under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and in accordance with the Plan, as of the Effective Date, the board of directors of AAG was reconstituted to be comprised of 12 members: (i) Thomas W. Horton, AMR’s prior chairman, chief executive officer and president, who currently serves as chairman of AAG and will continue to so serve until the earlier of one year after the closing of the Merger and the day immediately prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders of AAG (provided that such meeting will not occur prior to May 1, 2014), (ii) W. Douglas Parker, formerly chief executive officer of US Airways, Inc., who serves as chief executive officer of AAG and will serve as chairman of AAG following the end of Mr. Horton’s term, (iii) two independent directors designated by AMR, Alberto Ibargüen and Ray M. Robinson, (iv) three independent directors designated by US Airways Group, Matthew J. Hart, Richard C. Kraemer, and Denise M. O’Leary, and (v) five independent directors, James F. Albaugh, Jeffrey D. Benjamin, John T. Cahill (lead independent director), Michael J. Embler, and Richard P. Schifter, who were designated by a search committee consisting of representatives of the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of the Debtors and certain representatives of creditors signatory to support agreements with AMR.

Further, on the Effective Date, Mr. Horton (formerly president and chief executive officer), Daniel P. Garton (formerly executive vice president), Isabella D. Goren (formerly senior vice president and chief financial officer), Gary F. Kennedy (formerly senior vice president, general counsel, and chief compliance officer) and James B. Ream (formerly senior vice president of operations) ceased to be executive officers of AAG and American and W. Douglas Parker (chief executive officer of AAG, American, and US Airways Group), J. Scott Kirby (president), Derek J. Kerr (executive vice president and chief financial officer), Robert D. Isom, Jr. (chief operating officer and chief executive officer of US Airways), Elise R. Eberwein (executive vice president - people and communications) and Stephen L. Johnson (executive vice president-corporate affairs) were elected as the executive officers of AAG, American, US Airways Group and US Airways, except as otherwise noted.

On the Effective Date and pursuant to the Plan and in accordance with the Merger Agreement, AAG’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws were amended and restated in their entirety, and an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation 

6

(the Certificate of Incorporation) and a Certificate of Designations with respect to the AAG Series A Preferred Stock was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware immediately prior to the closing of the Merger. Upon issuance of the shares pursuant to the Plan and the Merger Agreement, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment with Secretary of State of the State of Delaware solely to change its name to American Airlines Group Inc. Thereafter, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which integrated the Certificate of Incorporation (including the Certificate of Designations) and the Certificate of Amendment, with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.

The Merger was intended to qualify, for federal income tax purposes, as a reorganization under the provisions of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

The Merger has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with AAG treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes. US Airways Group’s identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recognized at their estimated fair values as of the Effective Date. Goodwill was measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the Merger over the fair value of the identifiable net assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually.

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "AAG Year in Review", Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "AAG Results of Operations", Note 2 and Note 4 to AAG's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8A and Note 2 to American's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8B for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases and the Merger.

Airline Operations

As noted above, AAG is a holding company whose primary business activity is the operation of two major network carriers through its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries: American and, as of December 9, 2013, US Airways. As of December 31, 2013, American, together with American Eagle and the third-party regional carriers that provide regional feed to American, served more than 270 communities in more than 50 countries using a combined network fleet of 903 aircraft. American is a founding member of oneworld® alliance and is one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard its passenger fleet. American had approximately 87 million passengers boarding its mainline flights in 2013.

US Airways Group is a holding company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries include US Airways, Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont) and PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA). As of December 31, 2013, those carriers and the third-party regional carriers that provide regional feed to US Airways served more than 207 airports in more than 20 countries using a combined network fleet of 621 aircraft.

 Following the Merger, AAG began moving toward operating under the single brand name of "American Airlines" through its mainline operations, American and US Airways. Until a single operating certificate is issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the operational integration is complete, American and US Airways will continue to operate as separate airlines. This process is expected to take 18-24 months. Through its operating subsidiaries, including the operating subsidiaries of US Airways Group, AAG is the largest airline in the world as measured by revenue passenger miles (RPMs) and available seat miles (ASMs). The Company has primary hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. As of December 31, 2013, the combined airline, together with its third-party regional carriers operated nearly 6,700 daily flights to 339 destinations in 54 countries. As of December 31, 2013, American and US Airways operated 965 mainline jets. American continues to be provided with regional feed by American Eagle and third-party regional carriers and US Airways continues to be provided with regional feed by Piedmont, PSA and third-party regional carriers. As of December 31, 2013, the Company's regional subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers that provide it with regional feed operated approximately 519 regional jets and approximately 40 turboprops.

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Results of Operations" for a discussion of AAG’s and American’s operating results and operating performance. See Note 15 to AAG's Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 14 to American's Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding our operating segments and operating revenue in principal geographic areas.

Regional Operations

Certain air carriers, including our wholly-owned regional carriers, American Eagle, Piedmont and PSA, and third-party regional carriers, have arrangements with us to provide regional feed under the trade name "American Eagle" or "US Airways Express." As of December 31, 2013, 15 regional aircraft were also provided by a third party operating under the "American Connection" brand, an arrangement that we expect to end during 2014. American Eagle and US Airways Express carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on feeder traffic from these regional carriers, which carry passengers to our hubs from low-density markets that are uneconomical for us to serve with large jets. In addition, regional carriers offer 

7

complementary service in our existing mainline markets by operating flights during off-peak periods between mainline flights. During 2013, approximately 22 million passengers boarded our regional, air carriers' planes, approximately 43% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights. Of these passengers, approximately 18 million were enplaned by our wholly owned regional carriers, approximately 4 million were enplaned by third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements and less than 1 million were enplaned by carriers operating under prorate agreements, as described below. 

The American Eagle and US Airways Express arrangements are principally in the form of capacity purchase agreements. The capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, mail and freight revenues, go to us. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees and passenger liability insurance, will be reimbursed 100% by us. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. A very small number of regional aircraft are operated for us under prorate agreements, under which the regional carriers receive a prorated share of ticket revenue and pay certain service fees to us. The prorate carriers are responsible for all costs incurred operating the applicable aircraft. All American Eagle and US Airways Express carriers have logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to our mainline operations. 

Cargo

Our cargo division is one of the largest air cargo operations in the world, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. 

Other revenues

Other revenues include revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs as discussed below under "Frequent Flyer Program", membership fees and related revenue from our Admirals Club operations, our US Airways Club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees.

The U.S. Airline Industry

In 2013, the U.S. airline industry experienced year-over-year growth in passenger revenues driven by strong demand for air travel. 

In its most recent data available, Airlines for America, the trade association for U.S. airlines, reported that annual U.S. industry passenger revenues and yields increased 3.8% and 2.0%, respectively, as compared to 2012. With respect to international versus domestic performance, Airlines for America reported that the Atlantic and Latin America markets outperformed domestic markets in year-over-year growth in passenger revenues while the Pacific market experienced year-over-year declines in passenger revenues. 

Throughout 2013, jet fuel prices continued to follow the price of Brent crude oil more closely than the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil. On average, fuel costs were down slightly in 2013 as compared to 2012. The Brent crude oil average daily spot price was $109 per barrel in 2013 which is slightly lower than the average daily spot price in 2012 of $112 per barrel. However, on a daily basis, prices continued to be volatile. Throughout 2013, daily spot prices fluctuated between a high of $119 per barrel in February to a low of $97 per barrel in April and closed the year at $110 per barrel on December 31, 2013. 

While the U.S. airline industry is currently benefiting from a favorable revenue environment and moderating fuel price increases as described above, uncertainty exists regarding the economic conditions driving these factors. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity."

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Domestically, any U.S. airline deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities (Slots). Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, target promotions and frequent flyer initiatives. On most of our domestic non-stop routes, we currently face competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline, including: Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines, United Airlines and Virgin America. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. 

8

We also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.

On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Airlines typically use discount fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally slack travel periods, when they begin service to new cities or when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow and maximize revenue per ASM and to establish, increase or preserve market share. Discount and promotional fares are generally non-refundable and may be subject to various restrictions such as minimum stay requirements, advance ticketing, limited seating and change fees. We have often elected to match discount or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market. Our ability to compete on the basis of price is limited by our fixed costs and depends on our ability to manage effectively our operating costs. Some of our competitors have greater financial or other resources and/or lower cost structures than we do. In addition, low fare, low-cost carriers compete in many of the markets in which we operate and competition from these carriers is increasing. These low cost carriers generally have lower cost structures than American and US Airways.

In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle and US Airways Express regional carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by flying to lower demand markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of the Company’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional airlines which provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, frequent flyer programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, markets served and other services. We compete with both major network airlines and low-cost airlines throughout our network.

In addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Mexico, Europe, the Middle East, the Caribbean, Central and South America, and Asia. Revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40% of American’s total operating revenues and approximately 24% of US Airways’ total operating revenues for 2013. In providing international air transportation, we compete with foreign investor-owned airlines, foreign state-owned airlines, and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations.

Marketing and Alliance Agreements with Other Airlines

In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers' rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other's markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers - including American and US Airways - have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, Dragonair, EL AL, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hainan Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Jet Airways, JetStar Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Colombia, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malaysia Airlines, Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, Seaborne Airlines, TAM Airlines, and WestJet.

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes AirBerlin, British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, and S7 Airlines. TAM Airlines and SriLankan Airlines are scheduled to join the alliance in the first half of 2014. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers' frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers' airport lounge facilities. Together, oneworld members and members-elect serve 981 destinations with over 14,000 daily flights to 151 countries.

American is party to antitrust-immunized cooperation agreements with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair, and Royal Jordanian. Over the last three years, American has also established joint business agreements (JBAs) with British Airways, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Qantas and Finnair that enable the carriers to cooperate on flights between particular destinations, and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these JBAs. In addition, in December 2012, American signed codeshare agreements with Sao Paulo-based TAM Airlines and Bogota-based LAN Colombia. Generally, under a codeshare arrangement, one carrier places its designator code and sells ticket on flights of another carrier. Once approved in Brazil and Colombia, respectively, these new codeshare relationships will provide expanded opportunities for American to serve new markets in Brazil and Colombia and for TAM Airlines and LAN Colombia to serve new markets in the U.S.

US Airways is currently a member of the Star Alliance®, which offers similar member benefits as those discussed above for the oneworld alliance, and will transition to oneworld on March 31, 2014. As part of this transition, codeshare and frequent 

9

flyer reciprocity between US Airways and many members of the Star Alliance will be ending on March 30, 2014. Some of the largest airlines that will be phased out at that time include United Airlines, Lufthansa, Swiss, Brussels Airlines, and All Nippon Airways, while others will be phased out in the following months. We are in negotiations with International Airlines Group (IAG), the parent company of British Airways and Iberia, concerning the terms by which flights operated by US Airways will be added to our existing transatlantic joint business. We have thus far been unable to reach agreement with IAG and are uncertain if we will be able to reach an agreement. US Airways’ entry into the JBA and cooperation with other carriers is subject to compliance with all DOT regulations and applicable orders as well as obtaining required DOT approvals. US Airways is expected to enter into codeshare cooperation with selected oneworld member airlines and frequent flyer reciprocity with all other members. US Airways is also expected to enter into marketing relationships with selected other airlines that are currently party to marketing agreements with American.

Industry Regulation and Airport Access

General

Our airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, DOT and the FAA still exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, and consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. 

The FAA regulates flying operations, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance, and other operational and safety areas. Pursuant to these regulations, our airline subsidiaries have FAA-approved maintenance programs for each type of aircraft they operate. The programs provide for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from periodic routine inspections to major overhauls. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement and maintenance of older aircraft, safety measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, other environmental concerns, fuel tank inerting, crew scheduling and aircraft operations. We are also progressing toward the completion of numerous airworthiness directives, a number of which require us to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. Based on the current implementation schedule, we expect to be in full compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. Our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and could in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the FAA or other regulators. The FAA also operates the air traffic control (ATC) system in the United States.

Additionally, the FAA recently implemented rules on pilot flight and duty times, and finalized rules on minimum requirements for all pilots operating commercial aircraft. Both rules have increased our costs and reduced staffing flexibility, particularly during irregular operations. We are also working with the FAA on integrating US Airways and American into a single operating certificate under the American operations specifications.

Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the "ticket tax," on domestic and international air transportation. Airlines collect the ticket tax, along with certain other U.S. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation, and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. See "Industry Regulation and Airport Access - Security," below for a discussion of passenger fees.

Most major U.S. airports impose a passenger facility charge (PFC). The ability of airports to increase this charge (and the ability of airlines to contest such increases) is restricted by federal legislation, DOT regulations and judicial decisions. With certain exceptions, air carriers pass these charges on to passengers. However, our ability to pass through the total amount of the PFC to our customers is subject to various factors, including market conditions and competitive factors. The current cap on the PFC is $4.50 per passenger, but the industry has faced repeated efforts in Congress to raise the cap to a higher level including in the last session of Congress.

DOT consumer rules that took effect in 2010 require procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, including additional reporting requirements for airlines, that have increased the cost of airline operations and reduced revenues. The DOT has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these rules. In addition, the DOT finalized a second set of rules that further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. These rules require airlines to display all fares in an "all in" basis, with the price of the air travel and all taxes and government imposed fees rolled into the displayed fare. Enhanced disclosure of ancillary fees such as baggage fees is also required. Other rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international carriers.

We anticipate a third set of consumer rules to be issued by the DOT in 2014 and the DOT continues its efforts to further regulate airlines through increased data reporting requirements, expansion of the Air Carrier Access Act, and greater oversight 

10

of the methods airlines use to describe and sell air transportation and other products and services. Each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to our operation. In this environment, no assurance can be given that compliance with these new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight from the DOJ, the FAA or other regulatory bodies will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Among its regulatory responsibilities, DOT also enforces equal access to air transportation for disabled passengers. Recently, a number of carriers, including American and US Airways, have entered into consent orders with DOT over their handling of disabled passengers. DOT has been aggressive in prosecuting disability violations and seeks large penalties. We expect to see continued DOT emphasis in this area through both regulation and enforcement.

  DOT and the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and CBAs. In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, we are subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.

International 

International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. Our operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities, such as the European Union (EU), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral and multilateral agreements among the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries we serve are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, Slots or other assets located abroad, or otherwise adversely affect our international operations. The open skies agreement between the U.S. and Brazil, which was signed in 2010 and takes full effect in 2015, has resulted in increased competition in the U.S./Brazil market. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs Slots and other facilities before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such Slots is not assured and our inability to obtain and retain needed Slots and facilities could therefore inhibit our efforts to compete in certain international markets. Further, pursuant to the Merger clearance process in the EU, we are required to make available to other carriers certain Slots at London Heathrow. See "Industry Regulation and Airport Access - Airport Access and Operations," below.

Security 

The Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the Aviation Security Act) was enacted in November 2001. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security screening were federalized, and a new Transportation Security Administration (TSA) under the DOT was created. The TSA was then transferred to the Department of Homeland Security pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The Aviation Security Act, among other matters, mandates improved flight deck security; carriage at no charge of federal air marshals; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced security training; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports pursuant to regulations issued in connection with the Aviation Security Act; and the provision of certain passenger data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer monies. A "passenger security fee," which is collected by air carriers from their passengers, is currently set at a rate of $2.50 per flight segment but not more than $10 per round trip. However, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 increased the passenger security fee to $5.60 per one-way trip effective on July 1, 2014. An air carrier fee, or Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee (ASIF), has also been imposed with an annual cap equivalent to the amount that an individual air carrier paid in calendar year 2000 for the screening of passengers and property. The fee was repealed by federal legislation and the repeal will go into effect on October 1, 2014.

 Implementation of and compliance with the requirements of the Aviation Security Act have resulted and will continue to result in increased costs for us and our passengers and have resulted and will likely continue to result in service disruptions and delays. As a result of competitive pressure, we and other airlines may be unable to recover all of these additional security costs from passengers through increased fares. In addition, we cannot forecast what new security and safety requirements may be imposed in the future or the costs or financial impact of complying with any such requirements.

11

Airline Fares 

Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.

Airport Access and Operations

Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports we serve are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of Slots or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each Slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of Slots, Slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C., LaGuardia and JFK in New York City, and Newark. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of Slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, our operations at Frankfurt, London Heathrow, Paris, Tokyo Narita and certain other international airports are regulated by local Slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines (WSG) and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient Slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are often sought after by other airlines, and are subject to changes in governmental policies. 

In connection with the settlement of antitrust litigation brought by the DOJ and certain states, we entered into settlement agreements that provide for certain asset divestitures. In the agreement with the United States government, among other things, we agreed to divest and not reacquire for ten years certain rights and assets consisting of 52 Slot pairs at Washington Reagan National Airport and 17 Slot pairs at LaGuardia, in each case together with associated gates and related ground facilities necessary to operate those Slot pairs, and two gates at each of Boston Logan International Airport, Chicago O’Hare International Airport, Dallas Love Field, Los Angeles International Airport and Miami International Airport. The agreement with the plaintiff states requires our airlines, subject to certain conditions and exceptions, to maintain certain hub operations in a manner generally consistent with historical operations and to continue to provide scheduled daily service to certain specified communities, both for limited periods of time. In addition, we entered into a related settlement with the DOT related to small community service from Washington Reagan National Airport. Further, as a consequence of the Merger clearance process in the EU, we are required to make available one pair of London Heathrow Slots for use by another carrier between London and Philadelphia, which the acquiring carrier can deploy on another Heathrow city pair after operating the Slots on London-Philadelphia for a period of not less than three consecutive years, and, along with our JBA partners, we are required to make available for an initial period of up to seven years one pair of Heathrow Slots for service between London and Miami that may be operated via an intermediate point.

Amendments to the Wright Amendment have reduced geographic restrictions on operations at Dallas Love Field (DAL) and in October 2014, will eliminate all such domestic non-stop geographic restrictions on operations there. Southwest has already announced plans to serve new markets throughout the continental United States from DAL in October 2014. Although we held two gates at DAL, we did not operate from there in 2013 and instead operated solely at Dallas Fort Worth. An element of our settlement of the antitrust litigation brought by the U.S. Department of Justice and certain states relating to the Merger included our divestiture of the two gates we held at DAL. 

The DOT allows local airport authorities to implement procedures designed to abate special noise problems, provided such procedures do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. Certain locales, including Boston, Washington D.C., Chicago, San Diego and San Francisco, among others, have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of these operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs, and these restrictions could limit the ability of our airline subsidiaries to expand their operations at the affected airports. Authorities at other airports may adopt similar noise regulations. See "Industry Regulation and Airport Access - Environmental Matters," below.

Civil Reserve Air Fleet

We are a participant in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) program, which is a voluntary program administered by the U.S. Air Force Air Mobility Command. The General Services Administration of the U.S. Government requires that airlines participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program in order to receive U.S. Government business. We are reimbursed at compensatory rates if aircraft are activated under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program or when participating in Department of 

12

Defense business. If a substantial number of our aircraft are activated for operation under the CRAF program at a time of war or other national emergency, our business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In January 2014, the U.S. Air Force proposed a radical restructuring of the CRAF program to take effect in October 2015. We do not support the new proposals as they could adversely affect our business and, together with other industry participants, we are working with the Air Force to address our concerns.

Environmental Matters 

The airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.

Many aspects of the Company's operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional international and domestic legislation or regulation. For example, the EU has established the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in the EU. The EU adopted a directive under which each EU member state is required to extend the ETS to aviation operations. This directive would have required us, beginning in 2012, in order to operate flights to and from airports in the European Economic Area (EEA), including flights between the U.S. and EU member states, to annually submit emission allowances equal to our total carbon dioxide emissions from those flights. While a certain portion of those allowances are granted to us at no cost, we may potentially need to also purchase allowances in order to cover our emissions total in a given year. However, in an effort to allow ICAO time to propose an alternate scheme to manage global aviation emissions, in April 2013 the EU suspended for one year the ETS' application to flights entering and departing the EEA, limiting its application, for flights flown in 2012, to intra-EEA flights only. In October 2013, the ICAO Assembly adopted a resolution calling for the development through ICAO of a global, market-based scheme for aviation emissions, to be implemented in 2020. Subsequently, the EU has proposed amending the EU ETS so that the monitoring, reporting and submission of allowances for emissions from flights flown in 2013 would continue to be limited to only intra-EEA flights. For flights flown from 2014 to 2020, the scope of coverage under the amendment would include intra-EEA flights and the portion of aviation emissions of flights to and from EU member states that take place in European regional airspace. The EU anticipates approval of this amendment in April 2014. The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 which encourages the DOT to seek an international solution through ICAO and that will allow the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. While these measures create some uncertainty as to the extent to which we will be required to participate in the ETS going forward, it is nevertheless increasingly likely that in the future we will be required to participate in some form of international arrangement governing aircraft emissions. 

In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation on climate change. Although Congress has not passed comprehensive climate change legislation, several states have adopted mechanisms to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Even without further federal legislation, the EPA may act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, the EPA issued its final Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases, which became effective in January 2010. This regulatory finding sets the foundation for potential future EPA greenhouse gas regulation under the Clean Air Act. Depending on the scope of such regulation, certain of our facilities and operations may be subject to additional operating and other permit requirements, potentially resulting in increased operating costs.

The environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. Our alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are relatively small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs; we anticipate that any future payments of costs at such sites will not have a material impact on our operations.

13

Future Regulatory Developments

 Future regulatory developments and actions could affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate Slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations," "Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages" and "We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result" for additional information.

Employees and Labor Relations

The airline business is labor intensive. In 2013, salaries, wages, and benefits were one of our largest expenses and represented approximately 22% of our operating expenses. The table below presents our approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees as of December 31, 2013.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

As of December 31, 2013, approximately 73% of AAG's active employees were represented by various labor unions and covered by CBAs. Employees of American, US Airways and AAG's regional subsidiaries are covered by labor agreements as set forth in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees covered by the contract as of December 31, 2013.

(2) See discussion below regarding the process for combining mainline employee groups post-merger.

15

Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, the National Mediation Board (NMB) is responsible for determining which union, if any, is designated to represent employees. In an airline merger, when different unions represent the employees at the merging carrier, a union may file an application with the NMB to represent the combined group of post-merger employees. The application is reviewed by the NMB which considers whether the operations of the merging carriers have been sufficiently integrated to constitute a single transportation system. After the integration process is found to have created a single transportation system, the NMB then conducts an investigation to determine which union, if any, is to be the representative of the post-merger employees. That union then negotiates a joint collective bargaining agreement (JCBA) covering the combined group of post-merger employees.

 While the passenger service employees at mainline American are not currently represented by any labor organization, the passenger service employees of mainline US Airways are represented by the Airline Employees Customer Service Association, CWA-IBT (CWA-IBT). When and if the CWA-IBT files a single transportation system application with the NMB, the union is expected to attempt to organize the passenger service employees of both mainline airlines. In the meantime, the US Airways passenger service employees will continue to be represented by the CWA-IBT, and the American passenger service employees will remain unrepresented for labor relations purposes.

 Most of the other mainline American ground employees are represented by the Transport Workers Union (TWU) and are covered by existing CBAs. Although those agreements will not become amendable until 2018, the TWU is required under the agreements to file a single transportation system application in order to represent the combined groups of mainline US Airways and mainline American employees. For the fleet service employees, the mechanic and related employees and the stores employees, the TWU may share post-merger representation rights with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). After the NMB has determined that a single transportation system exists and has certified a post-merger representative of the combined employee groups, the process for negotiating new JCBA covering the combined employee groups will commence. That process can take many months or even several years to complete.

Under an agreement reached with the American mainline and the US Airways mainline pilots and a tentative agreement with the American and US Airways mainline flight attendants, a different approach will be used by us to reach JCBAs. The two pilot groups have agreed that, once a post-merger representative has been designated by the NMB, there will be a thirty-day negotiations period, and, if no agreement is reached, a panel of arbitrators will set the remaining terms of the JCBAs that will become amendable on December 31, 2018. The economic terms of the pilot JCBA established by the arbitration panel must conform with the contract that was reached with the two pilot groups. If the tentative agreement with the American mainline and US Airways mainline flight attendants is approved, negotiations over the terms of a JCBA will be conducted for up to 240 days. If no agreement can be reached, a panel of arbitrators will establish the unresolved terms of the JCBA, which is to be set based on economics comparable to those for flight attendants at other legacy airlines.

The merger will have no impact on the CBAs that cover the employees of our wholly-owned subsidiary airlines which are not being merged (American Eagle, Piedmont and PSA). For those employees, the RLA provides that CBAs do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date.

When a RLA CBA becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed by the parties. Under the RLA, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare under the RLA at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to binding arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, an initial 30-day "cooling off" period commences. Following the conclusion of that 30-day "cooling off" period, if no agreement has been reached, "self-help" (as described below) can begin unless a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) is established. A PEB examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and (if no resolution is reached) is followed by another "cooling off" period of 30 days. At the end of a "cooling off" period (unless an agreement is reached, a PEB is established, or action is taken by Congress), the labor organization may exercise "self-help," such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own "self-help," including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.

The NMB is currently mediating negotiations with the IAM covering the mainline US Airways fleet service employees, the mechanic and related employees, and the store employees, and with the AFA covering the Piedmont flight attendants.

For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations."

16

Aircraft Fuel

Our operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. Based on our 2014 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that as of December 31, 2013, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of crude oil would increase our 2014 annual fuel expense by $104 million (excluding the effect of our hedges), and by $87 million (taking into account such hedges). 

The following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for American, it's third-party regional carriers and American Eagle, for 2011 through 2013. AAG's consolidated fuel requirements in 2014 are expected to increase significantly to approximately 4.4 billion gallons as a result of a full year of US Airways operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Total fuel expenses for American Eagle and American's third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $946 million, respectively.

In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, we trade and ship fuel and maintain fuel storage facilities to support our flight operations. Prior to the Effective Date, we from time to time entered into hedging contracts, which consist primarily of call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). Heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. Depending on movements in the price of fuel, our fuel hedging can result in gains or losses on its fuel hedges. For more discussion see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity."

As of January 2014, we had hedges covering approximately 19% of estimated consolidated AAG (including the estimated fuel requirements of US Airways) 2014 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2014 is capped at an average price of approximately $2.91 per gallon of jet fuel. One percent of our estimated 2014 fuel requirement is hedged using call spreads with protection capped at an average price of approximately $3.18 per gallon of jet fuel. Eighteen percent of our estimated 2014 fuel requirement is hedged using collars with an average floor price of approximately $2.62 per gallon of jet fuel. The cap and floor prices exclude taxes and transportation costs. 

We have not entered into any fuel hedges since the Effective Date and our current policy is not to do so.

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7(A). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, Note 10 to AAG's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8A and Note 9 to American's Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8B.

Fuel prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity."

Insurance 

We maintain insurance of the types that we believe are customary in the airline industry, including insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. Principal coverage includes liability for injury to members of the public, including passengers, damage to property of AAG, its subsidiaries and others, and loss of or damage to flight equipment, whether on the ground or in flight. We also maintain other types of insurance such as workers’ compensation and employer’s liability, with limits and deductibles that we believe are standard within the industry.

Since September 11, 2001, we and other airlines have been unable to obtain coverage for liability to persons other than employees and passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events, which is called war risk coverage, at reasonable rates from the commercial insurance market. We, therefore, purchased our war risk coverage through a special program administered by the FAA, as have most other U.S. airlines. This program, which currently expires September 30, 2014, 

17

has been extended numerous times in the past. If this program were not to be extended, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk coverage, and because of competitive pressures in the industry, our ability to pass this additional cost to passengers may be limited. In addition, we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results."

In addition, insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general following September 11, 2001. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, if commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be materially adversely affected.

Customer Service

We are committed to consistently deliver safe, reliable and convenient service to our customers in every aspect of our operation. Our 2013 operating performance was negatively impacted by more severe summer weather conditions as compared to 2012. We reported the following operating statistics to the DOT for American's mainline operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Percentage of reported flight operations arriving on time as defined by the DOT.

(b) Percentage of scheduled flight operations completed.

(c) Rate of mishandled baggage reports per 1,000 passengers.

(d) Rate of customer complaints filed with the DOT per 100,000 enplanements.

Frequent Flyer Programs 

American established AAdvantage® to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. We believe that the AAdvantage program is one of our competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 74 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, the American Eagle carriers, the third-party regional carriers and other participating airlines or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, the American Eagle carriers or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. A member's mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.

American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer (Citibank), hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. We believe that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, we reserve the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2013, AAdvantage had approximately 74 million total members, and 622.3 billion outstanding award miles. During 2013, AAdvantage issued approximately 202.8 billion miles, of which approximately 64% were sold to program participants. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for more information on AAdvantage.

US Airways offers a similar frequent flyer program under the Dividend Miles brand that allows participants to earn mileage credits for each paid flight segment on US Airways and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Participants flying in first class or US Airways' international business class (Envoy class) may receive additional mileage credits. Participants can also receive mileage credits through special promotions that US Airways periodically offers and may also earn mileage credits by utilizing certain credit cards and purchasing services from non-airline partners such as hotels and rental car agencies. US 

18

Airways sells mileage credits to credit card companies, hotels, car rental agencies and others that participate in the Dividend Miles program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for travel awards on US Airways or other participating airlines.

US Airways and the other participating airline partners limit the number of seats per flight that are available for redemption by award recipients by using various inventory management techniques. Award travel is generally not permitted on blackout dates, which correspond to certain holiday periods or peak travel dates. We charge various fees for issuing awards dependent upon destination and booking method and for issuing awards within 21 days of the travel date. We reserve the right to terminate Dividend Miles or portions of the program at any time. Program rules, partners, special offers, blackout dates, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change. 

Effective January 7, 2014, AAdvantage and Dividend Miles members can earn and redeem miles when traveling across either airline's network. All travel on eligible tickets on both airlines will count toward qualification for elite status in the customer's program of choice. Elite members of each airline can enjoy select reciprocal benefits of both the AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs, including First and Business Class check-in, priority security and priority boarding, complimentary access to Preferred Seats, priority baggage delivery, and checked bags at no charge, consistent with the current baggage policies for each carrier.

The US Airways Dividend Miles program will transition to the AAdvantage frequent flyer program as soon as commercially feasible.

Ticket Distribution

Passengers can book tickets for travel on American or US Airways through several distribution channels including their direct websites (www.aa.com and www.usairways.com), our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity). To remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - "We rely on third party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels."

Seasonality and Other Factors 

Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Accordingly, the results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year.

Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2013 is included in Note 16 to AAG's Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 15 to American's Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B.

Available Information 

The SEC allows AAG and American to incorporate information by reference into this Form 10-K. This means that AAG and American can disclose important information to you by referring you to another document filed separately with the SEC. Any information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K is considered to be a part of this Form 10-K, except for any information that is superseded by information that is included directly in this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference subsequent to the date of this Form 10-K. AAG and American do not incorporate the contents of their website into this Form 10-K.

A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available free of charge at www.aa.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC and at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, additional information is available regarding US Airways Group and US Airways in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 that US Airways Group and US Airways filed with the SEC, which is available free of charge at www.usairways.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they electronically file such material with the SEC and at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

AAG has made and expects to make public disclosures of certain information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries to investors and the general public by means of social media sites, including, but not limited to, Facebook and Twitter and a website maintained by us to provide information regarding AAG’s reorganization pursuant its plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Investors are encouraged to (i) follow American (@AmericanAir) on Twitter, (ii) "like" 

19

American (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines) on its Facebook page, (iii) follow American (www.google.com/+americanairlines) on Google+; (iv) follow American (www.pinterest.com/ americanair) on Pinterest; (v) follow American (www.instagram.com/americanair) on Instagram; (vi) "like" American (www.foursquare.com/americanair) on Foursquare; (vii) follow American (www.linkedin.com/company/american-airlines) on LinkedIn; (viii) subscribe to American (www.youtube.com/user/americanairlines) on YouTube; (ix) visit http://www.aa.com/arriving or usairways.com/arriving for updated information regarding AAG, US Airways Group and the Merger and (x) visit www.amrcaseinfo.com for updated information regarding AAG and certain of its subsidiaries’ plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Neither AAG nor American incorporates the contents of its social media posts or websites into this Form 10-K.

20

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

"1998 Plan" means the AMR 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan.

"2003 Plan" means the AMR 2003 Employee Stock Incentive Plan.

"2009 Plan" means the AMR 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan.

"2011 Plan" means the US Airways Group 2011 Incentive Award Plan.

"2013 Citicorp Credit Facility" means the $1.6 billion term loan facility provided for by the loan agreement, as amended, entered into May 23, 2013 among US Airways, certain affiliates of US Airways and certain lenders.

"2013 IAP" means AAG 2013 Incentive Award Plan.

"AAdvantage" means the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program.

"AAG" means American Airlines Group Inc. (formerly named AMR Corporation).

"AAG Common Stock" means AAG’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share.

"AAG Series A Preferred Stock" means AAG’s Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, with a stated value $25.00 per share, and issued in accordance with the Plan.

"ABA" means American Beacon Advisors, Inc.

"ABO" means accumulated benefit obligation.

"Act" means Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006.

"AFA" means Association of Flight Attendants-CWA.

"Air Wisconsin" means Air Wisconsin Airlines Corporation.

"ALPA" means Air Line Pilots Association.

"American" means American Airlines, Inc.

"American Eagle" means American Eagle Airlines, Inc. 

"AMR" means AMR Corporation and is used to reference AAG prior to December 9, 2013.

"AMR Eagle" means AMR Eagle Holding Corporation.

"AMT" means alternative minimum tax.

"ANCA" means Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990.

"APA" means Allied Pilots Association.

"APBO" means accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.

"APFA" means Association of Professional Flight Attendants.

"ASIF" means Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee.

"ASM" means available seat mile and is a basic measure of production. One ASM represents one seat flown one mile.

"ATC" means air traffic control.

"Average stage length" means the average of the distances flown on each segment of every route.

"Aviation Act" means subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code, as amended.

"Aviation Security Act" means the Aviation and Transportation Security Act enacted in November 2001.

"Bankruptcy Code" means Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code.

"Bankruptcy Court" means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.

"Block hours" means the hours measured from the moment an aircraft first moves under its own power, including taxi time, for the purposes of flight until the aircraft is docked at the next point of landing and its power is shut down.

21

"CASM" means operating cost per available seat mile and is equal to operating expenses divided by ASMs.

"CBAs" means collective bargaining agreements.

"CERCLA" or the "Superfund Act" means Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act.

"Certificate of Incorporation" means AAG’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

"CFTC" means Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

"Chapter 11 Cases" means the voluntary petitions for relief filed on November 29, 2011 by the Debtors.

"Chautauqua" means Chautauqua Airlines, Inc.

"Company" means AAG and its consolidated subsidiaries.

"Confirmation Order" means the confirmation order entered by the Bankruptcy Court October 21, 2013 in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases.

"CRAF" means U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet.

"Credit Facilities" mean the $1.9 billion term loan facility and the $1.0 billion revolving credit facility provided for by the credit and guaranty agreement, as amended, entered into June 27, 2013 between AAG, American and certain lenders.

"CRSUs" means cash-settled restricted stock unit awards.

"CSARs" means cash-settled stock appreciation rights.

"CWA" means Communications Workers of America.

 "Debtor" means AMR Corporation.

"Debtors" means American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries.

"Disputed Claims Reserve" means shares of AAG Common Stock held in reserve for payment to holders of disputed claims at the Effective Date, to the extent such disputed claims become allowed Single-Dip Unsecured Claims after the Effective Date.

"DOJ" means the U.S. Department of Justice.

"Double-Dip Unsecured Claims" means claims of all creditors holding general unsecured claims against American that are guaranteed by AAG and general unsecured claims against AAG that are guaranteed by American.

"DOT" means the U.S. Department of Transportation.

"EETC" means enhanced equipment trust certificate.

"Effective Date" means December 9, 2013.

"Embraer" means Embraer S.A.

"Envoy class" means US Airways’ international business class.

"EPA" means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

"Ethics Standards" means AAG’s and American’s Standards of Business Conduct.

"ETS" means EU emissions trading scheme.

"EU" means European Union.

"ExpressJet" means ExpressJet, Inc.

"FAA" means Federal Aviation Administration.

"IAM" means International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers.

"IBT" means International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

"ICAO" means International Civil Aviation Organization.

"Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

22

"JBAs" means joint business agreements.

"LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars.

"Mainline" means the operations of American and US Airways, as applicable, and exclude regional operations.

"Merger" means the merger of Merger Sub with and into US Airways Group in accordance with the Merger Agreement.

"Merger Agreement" means Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 13, 2013, as amended.

"Merger Sub" means AMR Merger Sub, Inc.

"Mesa" means Mesa Airlines, Inc.

"MOU" means memorandum of understanding.

"MSC" means Material Services Company, Inc.

"NASDAQ" means NASDAQ Global Select Market.

"NMB" means National Mediation Board.

"NOL" means net operating loss.

"NOL Carryforwards" means a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior taxable years.

"NYSE" means New York Stock Exchange.

"OCI" means other comprehensive income.

"Passenger enplanements" means the number of passengers on board an aircraft, including local, connecting and through passengers.

"Passenger load factor" means the percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers.

"PBO" means projected benefit obligation.

"PEB" means Presidential Emergency Board.

"PFC" means passenger facility charge.

"Piedmont" means Piedmont Airlines, Inc.

"Plan" means the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization.

"PRASM" means passenger revenue per available seat mile and is equal to passenger revenues divided by ASMs.

"Proxy Statement" means American Airlines Group Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of American Airlines Group Inc. 

"PSA" means PSA Airlines, Inc.

"RASM" means the total revenue per available seat mile and is equal to the total revenues divided by total mainline and third-party regional carrier ASMs.

"Republic" means Republic Airline, Inc.

"RLA" means Railway Labor Act.

"RPM" means revenue passenger mile and is a basic measure of sales volume. One RPM represents one passenger flown one mile.

"RSUs" means restricted stock units.

"S&P" means Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC.

"Sabre" means Sabre Holdings Corporation, Sabre Inc. and Sabre Travel International Limited.

"SARs" means stock-settled stock appreciation rights.

"SEC" means Securities and Exchange Commission.

"Second Circuit" means the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

23

"Section 382" means Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.

"Securities Act" means Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

"Senior Secured Notes" means 7.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2016.

"SkyWest" means SkyWest Airlines, Inc.

"Slots" means landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities.

"Stabilization Act" means Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act.

"Standards of Business Conduct" means AAG’s code of ethics. 

"TSA" means Transportation Security Administration.

"TWU" means Transport Workers Union.

"USAPA" means US Airline Pilots Association.

"US Airways" means US Airways, Inc. 

"US Airways Group" means US Airways Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

"US Airways Group Code" means US Airways Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.

"US Airways Group Common Stock" means US Airways Group common stock, par value $0.01 per share.

"VIEs" means variable interest entities.

"WSG" means International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines.

"Yield" means a measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by RPMs.

24

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS