Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources during the three-year period ended February 1, 2013 (our fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010). Fiscal year 2011 contains 53 weeks of operating results compared to fiscal years 2012 and 2010 which contain 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references herein for the years 2012, 2011 and 2010 represent the fiscal years ended February 1, 2013, February 3, 2012 and January 28, 2011, respectively. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This discussion and analysis is presented in seven sections: 

  ·    Executive Overview    

  ·    Operations    

  ·    Lowe’s Business Outlook    

  ·    Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources    

  ·    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    

  ·    Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    

  ·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

During 2012, we made progress on our key initiatives, continuing our journey to become the customer’s first choice in home improvement. The economic environment showed signs of improvement as fiscal 2012 represented the first year of growth across all of the core housing metrics: housing turnover, single-family starts, and median home prices. These recent positive trends helped consumers regain confidence in both the local housing markets and their home values. Consequently, we were able to deliver solid results for the year. Net earnings for 2012 increased 6.5% to $2.0 billion and diluted earnings per share increased 18.2% to $1.69. Net sales for 2012 increased 0.6% to $50.5 billion. Fiscal 2011 contained an extra week which contributed $766 million to 2011 net sales or $0.05 to diluted earnings per share. Comparable sales were 1.4%, driven by a 0.9% increase in comparable average ticket and a 0.5% increase in comparable transactions. 

For 2012, cash flows from operating activities were approximately $3.8 billion, with $1.2 billion used for capital expenditures. Our strong financial position and positive cash flows provided us with the ability to make strategic investments in our core business and to return cash to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases. During fiscal 2012, we paid $704 million in dividends and repurchased approximately 146 million shares of common stock for a total of $4.35 billion under our share repurchase program. 

Continuing our journey 

In 2012, we continued to deliver on our commitment to retail excellence by building on our core strengths, while developing capabilities to provide seamless support across channels and a simplified home improvement experience. 

To further deliver a seamless and simple experience, we continued to upgrade our IT infrastructure and gave customers and associates greater access to information and products through enhanced mobile technology, MyLowes, and flexible fulfillment. In 2012, we made additional improvements to our associates’ iPhone® capabilities to enable them to deliver better customer experiences in the aisle by giving them immediate access to the information they need, such as the ability to identify available rebates. Our MyLowes customer base also continues to grow. Since the launch of MyLowes in late 

18 

2011, there have been over 18 million unique key fob swipes and over 5 million cardholders have registered their cards on MyLowes. We also experienced strong customer response to our iPhone® and AndroidTM mobile applications which have grown to represent approximately 20% of overall Lowes.com traffic. In addition, flexible fulfillment now allows us to deliver in-stock Lowes.com parcel orders to customers in over 90% of US markets within 24 hours at standard shipping rates. 

As we redefine our business to become more seamless and simple, we must also continue to protect retail relevance. In 2012, our focus was on two key initiatives: Value Improvement and Product Differentiation. Value Improvement is designed to enhance our ability to offer compelling products and value while Product Differentiation is designed to help us drive excitement and flexibility in our stores by highlighting innovative products through better display techniques. These strategic initiatives build on Lowe’s core strengths and are expected to deliver comparable transaction growth, better gross margins, and greater inventory productivity by localizing assortments and driving excitement in our stores. 

Value Improvement enhances our ability to offer compelling products and value by having the right product, at the right quantity, at the right place, at the right time. In 2012, we leveraged our Integrated Planning and Execution tool to create clusters of stores, based on specific differences and customer buying preferences, which enhanced the assortment strategy that was used to guide the line review process. For each cluster, the product assortments were designed to reduce duplication of features and functions within price points to improve the customer experience. We are also working to reduce unit costs by negotiating lower first costs from vendors by eliminating funds set aside for promotional and marketing support. The result is a more localized assortment of products and simpler price point progression within the category. As SKUs are rationalized, the teams are reinvesting the inventory dollars in greater depth of high volume SKUs. In addition, we are increasing our in-stock targets for these new lines to ensure items are available when needed by customers. By the end of 2012, we completed product line reviews and product line resets of approximately 80% and 30% of our business, respectively. 

Through our Product Differentiation initiative, we revised many of our end-cap locations to highlight innovative products, significant values, or to showcase specific private or national brands. In addition, we redesigned promotional spaces to better promote seasonally relevant, high value items to drive sales and to provide more open sight lines to navigate and shop at our stores. During 2012, our product differentiation resets were rolled out to approximately 1,250 stores, and we expect to roll the resets out to an additional 160 stores in 2013. 

In conjunction with our progress on Value Improvement and Product Differentiation, in 2012 we also initiated sales training programs for store and contact center employees to further develop our sales culture and pave the way for the next phase of our transformation. 

Where we go from here – 2013 and beyond 

While the housing market is slowly improving, consumers are still coping with the lingering effects of the recession as mortgage delinquency rates remain at historic highs. While we are optimistic about a housing recovery and near-term personal consumption expenditures are expected to grow faster than personal income, employment and income are expected to continue to grow slowly. Consumers will need to continue to prioritize how and where they spend their discretionary income and therefore our outlook for 2013 assumes modest growth in the home improvement market. However we have confidence in our vision and have laid the foundation to continue improving our core business as we move into fiscal year 2013. 

In 2013, our Value Improvement initiative will remain the primary focus of the organization. As we improve our product offerings by localizing assortments we expect to drive improved close rates. We also have an opportunity to improve close rates through additional labor in our stores. We expect to add approximately 150 hours per store per week to the staffing model for nearly two-thirds of our stores to help reduce the gap between our weekend versus weekday close rate. Our goal is to better serve customers and close more sales during peak weekday hours by increasing assistance available in the aisles. We believe the increased labor hours and higher in-stock service levels will help us further capitalize on traffic during the week which will result in an improvement in close rates. 

19 

In 2013 and beyond, we will further develop our flexible fulfillment capability by deploying Central Dispatch (CDO) and Central Production Offices (CPO). The CDO will allow for centralized delivery scheduling and better route planning, resulting in lower fuel cost, greater fleet utilization, and more productive overall delivery. The CPO will provide operational efficiencies through the consolidation of labor. Today each store has its own installed sales office, whereas, in the future, that labor will be consolidated into our contact centers resulting in a significant reduction of labor hours. The customer’s experience will be enhanced through better coordination and consistency. 

We will also build trust by partnering with customers to recommend solutions that fit their needs and to help them make the right decisions based on their individual home improvement goals. Beyond 2013, we will further enhance our sales culture by providing our associates the ability to sell seamlessly across channels and to introduce improved project management tools that expand fulfillment capabilities to cultivate personal and simple connections with customers. Associates across selling channels will be provided with a single-view of the customer; one record per customer, from lead capture to project completion. These changes will enable us to improve close rates and capitalize on the momentum of the improving economy and increases in consumer discretionary spending. 

By building on core strengths, we have laid the foundation to deliver on our commitment to retail excellence, and will continue to focus on developing the capabilities to provide our customers a seamless and simple home improvement experience going forward. 

20 

OPERATIONS 

The following tables set forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

21 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Fiscal year ended 2011 had 53 weeks. Fiscal years 2012 and 2010 had 52 weeks. 

2 EBIT margin, also referred to as operating margin, is defined as earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales. 

3 A comparable location is defined as a location that has been open longer than 13 months. A location that is identified for relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its relocation. The relocated location must then remain open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. A location we have decided to close is no longer considered comparable as of the beginning of the month in which we announce its closing. 

 4 Comparable sales are based on comparable 52-week periods for 2012 and 2010 and comparable 53-week periods for 2011. 

5 Average ticket is defined as net sales divided by the total number of customer transactions. 

6 Average store size selling square feet is defined as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores open at the end of the period. 

7 Return on average assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last five quarters. 

8 Return on average shareholders’ equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders’ equity for the last five quarters. 

9 Return on invested capital is a non-GAAP financial measure. See below for additional information. 

Return on Invested Capital 

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe ROIC is a meaningful metric for investors because it measures how effectively the Company uses capital to generate profits. 

We define ROIC as trailing four quarters’ net operating profit after tax divided by the average of ending debt and equity for the last five quarters. Although ROIC is a common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method used by our management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC. We encourage you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROIC before comparing its ROIC to ours. 

We consider return on average debt and equity to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to ROIC. The difference between these two measures is that ROIC adjusts net earnings to exclude tax adjusted interest expense. 

22 

The calculation of ROIC, together with a reconciliation to the calculation of return on average debt and equity, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Income tax adjustment is defined as earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by the effective tax rate. 

2 Average debt and equity is defined as average debt, including current maturities and short-term borrowings, plus total equity for the last five quarters. 

Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011 

For the purpose of the following discussion, comparable sales, comparable average ticket and comparable customer transactions are based on comparable 52-week periods. 

Net sales – Net sales increased 0.6% to $50.5 billion in 2012. The additional week in 2011 and resulting week shift in 2012 negatively impacted sales comparisons by $692 million, or 1.4%. Comparable sales increased 1.4% in 2012, driven by a 0.9% increase in comparable average ticket and a 0.5% increase in comparable customer transactions. Our key initiatives, Value Improvement and Product Differentiation, drove 40 basis points of the increase in sales. In addition, our proprietary credit value proposition, which offers customers the choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing, contributed 65 basis points to the increase in sales. Geographically, all operating divisions in the U.S. delivered positive comparable sales for the year as sales performance was well balanced in 2012. Furthermore, we continued to see strength in our Pro Services business, which outperformed the company average. 

We experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories during 2012: Lumber, Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment, Paint, Seasonal Living, Cabinets & Countertops, and Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning. In addition, Fashion Electrical, Hardware, Flooring and Plumbing performed at approximately the overall company average. Inflation aided comparable sales throughout the year in both the Lumber and Paint categories. 

23 

Comparable sales for Paint also benefited from new product offerings. Hurricane Sandy also contributed to comparable sale increases for Lumber, as a result of storm response efforts, and for Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment, due to increased generator sales. In addition, Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment comparable sales were also positively impacted by favorable weather in the first half of the year combined with effective promotions. 

Comparable sales were below the company average in Building Materials, Millwork, Appliances, and Lawn & Garden. The timing of storm recovery and repair efforts in 2012 as compared to 2011 resulted in decreased comparable sales in Building Materials. In addition, difficult comparisons to prior year promotional activity led to decreased comparable sales in Millwork and Appliances. Lawn & Garden was impacted by extreme heat and drought conditions in the first half of the year, slightly offset by improved inventory planning and attachment rates in the second half of the year. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.3% for 2012 represented a 26 basis point decrease from 2011, primarily driven by an unfavorable 19 basis point impact related to our proprietary credit value proposition. In addition, we experienced a seven basis point unfavorable impact to margin related to pricing and promotional activity. 

SG&A – The 84 basis point decrease in SG&A expense as a percentage of sales from 2011 to 2012 was primarily driven by 81 basis points of leverage due to long-lived asset impairment and other costs associated with the 27 store closures and discontinued projects in 2011. We also experienced approximately 35 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program, which was driven by increased portfolio income as a result of continued growth in the program. These were partially offset by deleverage of approximately 15 basis points associated with incentive compensation, due to higher attainment levels compared to targets for store-based employees relative to last year. In addition, we experienced nine basis points of deleverage in contract labor associated with information technology projects to improve customer experiences. 

Depreciation – Depreciation expense deleveraged six basis points for 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher depreciation associated with IT capital investments made to improve customer experiences, which have shorter average useful lives. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $21.5 billion at February 1, 2013 compared to $22.0 billion at February 3, 2012. At February 1, 2013 and February 3, 2012, we owned 89% of our stores, which included stores on leased land. 

Interest – Net – Net interest expense is comprised of the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.0 billion and $2.0 billion of unsecured notes in November 2011 and April 2012, respectively, partially offset by favorable tax settlements that resulted in a reduced interest accrual during 2012. 

Income tax provision – Our effective income tax rate was 37.6% in 2012 compared to 36.7% in 2011. The lower effective tax rate in 2011 was the result of the recognition of one-time federal employee retention benefits from the federal HIRE (Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment) retention tax credit, as well as the favorable settlement of certain state tax matters in the third quarter of 2011. 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 

For the purpose of the following discussion, comparable sales, comparable average ticket and comparable customer transactions are based on comparable 53-week periods. 

24 

Net sales – Net sales increased 2.9% to $50.2 billion in 2011, while comparable sales were flat. The additional week in 2011 contributed 1.6% to the increase in net sales. Comparable customer transactions increased approximately 0.4% and comparable average ticket decreased 0.4% versus 2010. 

While comparable sales were flat in 2011, we saw sequential improvement each quarter, with comparable sales of negative 3.3% in the first quarter, negative 0.3% in the second quarter, positive 0.7% in the third quarter and positive 3.4% in the fourth quarter. Unseasonably cold, wet weather, severe storms and flooding during the first quarter as well as comparisons to the 2010 Cash for Appliances government incentive program led to lower performance during the first half of the year. However, as comparisons to the Cash for Appliances program eased and storm recovery efforts were underway, we saw improvement in comparable sales. In addition, strong customer response to our 5% off every-day offer to Lowe’s credit cardholders, launched in the first half of 2011, aided comparable sales for the balance of the year. 

We experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories during 2011: Building Materials, Fashion Electrical, Paint, Hardware, Plumbing, and Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment. In addition, Seasonal Living, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Flooring, Lawn & Garden and Lumber performed at approximately the overall company average. Although unfavorable weather in the early part of the year negatively impacted outdoor categories such as Building Materials, recovery efforts after severe spring storms that hit many regions of the country and hurricane Irene positively impacted comparable sales in Building Materials, with particularly strong sales of roofing products and installation services. Plumbing also benefited from the wet weather and storm recovery efforts, with strong sales of pumps & tanks and dehumidifiers. In addition, Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment experienced favorable comparable sales primarily driven by holiday promotions and strong customer response to new products, such as our new line of Kobalt mechanics tools. Fashion Electrical also performed above the company average during 2011, driven by increased customer demand for energy-saving light bulbs, outdoor lighting and electrical cable. 

However, difficult comparisons to prior year energy tax credits negatively impacted comparable sales in Millwork. In addition, while we experienced strong market share gains in Cabinets & Countertops, they were not enough to offset the impact of the contracting market, leading to comparable sales below the company average for the year. Appliances also experienced negative comparable sales for the year driven by comparisons to the prior year Cash for Appliances program, which primarily impacted the first half of the year. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.56% for 2011 represented a 58 basis point decrease from 2010, primarily driven by margin rate. Strong customer response to our 5% off every-day offer to Lowe’s credit cardholders, targeted promotional activity and pricing changes associated with our move to every-day low prices negatively impacted margin for the year. Margin was also negatively impacted by 19 basis points associated with distribution expenses, primarily related to higher fuel costs. In addition, lower of cost or market inventory adjustments, primarily related to the 27 stores that closed in the second half of the year, negatively impacted margin by six basis points. These were partially offset by 15 basis points of favorable impact associated with the mix of products sold across product categories. 

SG&A – The increase in SG&A expense as a percentage of sales from 2010 to 2011 was primarily driven by de-leverage of 83 basis points related to charges for store closings, discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments. We also experienced approximately 15 basis points of de-leverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences, including expenses associated with additional internal and external staffing and technology expenditures. In addition, we experienced de-leverage in payroll taxes and fleet expense. These increases were partially offset by leverage of approximately 40 basis points associated with our proprietary credit program due to reduced program costs associated with lower losses and lower promotional financing as more customers took advantage of the 5% off every day offer. In addition, bonus expense leveraged 30 basis points due to lower attainment levels for the year relative to plan. 

Depreciation – Depreciation expense leveraged 30 basis points for 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to a lower asset base resulting from decreased capital spending and assets becoming fully depreciated or impaired. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $22.0 billion at February 3, 2012 compared to $22.1 billion at January 28, 2011. At February 3, 2012 and January 28, 2011, we owned 89% of our stores, which included stores on leased land. 

25 

Interest – Net interest expense is comprised of the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $2.0 billion of notes during 2010 and $1.0 billion of notes during 2011, offset by the repayment of $500 million of notes during 2010. 

Income tax provision – Our effective income tax rate was 36.7% in 2011 compared to 37.7% in 2010. The reduction in the effective tax rate was predominantly due to the recognition of benefits from the federal HIRE (Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment) retention tax credit as well as various state tax credit programs. 

LOWE’S BUSINESS OUTLOOK 

As of February 25, 2013, the date of our fourth quarter 2012 earnings release, we expected total sales in 2013 to increase approximately 4% and comparable sales to increase approximately 3.5%. We expected to open approximately 10 stores during 2013. In addition, earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales (operating margin) were expected to increase approximately 60 basis points and the effective tax rate was expected to be approximately 38.1%. Diluted earnings per share of $2.05 were expected for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2014. Our guidance assumed approximately $4 billion in share repurchases during 2013, spread evenly across the four quarters. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash Flows 

Cash flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our liquidity. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for 2012 versus 2011 was primarily driven by changes in working capital. The change in working capital was primarily driven by the timing of tax payments during the periods. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities for 2012 versus 2011 was primarily driven by a decrease in capital expenditures in addition to an increase in proceeds received from the sale of property and other long-term assets, partially offset by lower proceeds from the sale/maturity of investments. The increase in net cash used in financing activities for 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in cash used to repurchase shares, which included shares repurchased under our share repurchase program and shares withheld from employees to satisfy statutory tax withholding liabilities upon vesting of restricted stock awards. This was partially offset by the net change in long-term debt and an increase in proceeds from the issuance of common stock due to options exercised. 

Sources of Liquidity 

In addition to our cash flows from operations, liquidity is provided by our short-term borrowing facilities. We have a $1.75 billion senior credit facility that expires in October 2016. The senior credit facility supports our commercial paper program and has a $500 million letter of credit sublimit. Letters of credit issued pursuant to the senior credit facility reduce the amount available for borrowing under its terms. Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the senior credit facility. The senior credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the senior credit facility. We were in compliance with those covenants at February 1, 2013. Thirteen banking institutions are participating in the senior credit facility. There were no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under the senior credit facility and no outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program at February 1, 2013. 

26 

We expect to continue to have access to the capital markets on both short-term and long-term bases when needed for liquidity purposes by issuing commercial paper or new long-term debt. The availability and the borrowing costs of these funds could be adversely affected, however, by a downgrade of our debt ratings or a deterioration of certain financial ratios. The table below reflects our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s as of April 1, 2013, which we are disclosing to enhance understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effect of our ratings on our cost of funds. Although we currently do not expect a downgrade in our debt ratings, our commercial paper and senior debt ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be adequate not only for our operating requirements, but also for investments in information technology, investments in our existing stores, expansion plans and acquisitions, if any, and to return cash to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases over the next 12 months. There are no provisions in any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. In addition, we do not have a significant amount of cash held in foreign affiliates that would not be available to fund domestic operations. 

Cash Requirements 

Capital expenditures 

Our fiscal 2013 capital budget is approximately $1.25 billion, inclusive of approximately $50 million of lease commitments, resulting in a planned net cash outflow of $1.2 billion. Approximately 40% of the planned net cash outflow is for investments to enhance the customer experience, including enhancements in information technology. Investments in our existing stores are expected to account for approximately 35% of net cash outflow including investments in store equipment, resets and remerchandising. Our expansion plans for 2013 consist of approximately 10 new stores, all of which are expected to be owned, and which will account for approximately 15% of the planned net cash outflow. Approximately 30% of these new stores are expected to be on leased land. Other planned capital expenditures, accounting for 10% of planned net cash outflow, are for investments in our distribution network, including one additional regional distribution center. 

Debt and capital 

In April 2012, we issued $2.0 billion of unsecured notes in three tranches: $500 million of 1.625% notes maturing in April 2017, $750 million of 3.12% notes maturing in April 2022 and $750 million of 4.65% notes maturing in April 2042. Net proceeds from the 2017, 2022 and 2042 notes were approximately $498 million, $746 million, and $740 million, respectively.  

During 2012, $550 million of unsecured debt matured and was re-paid with cash from operations and investing activities. 

Dividends declared during fiscal 2012 totaled $708 million. Our dividend payment dates are established such that dividends are paid in the quarter immediately following the quarter in which they are declared. The dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 2012 was paid in fiscal 2013 and totaled $178 million. 

We have an ongoing share repurchase program that is executed through purchases made from time to time in the open market or through private off-market transactions. Shares purchased under the share repurchase program are returned to authorized and unissued status. On February 1, 2013, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $5.0 billion of share repurchases with no expiration, simultaneously terminating the remaining previous balance of $150 million under the prior authorization. This share repurchase authorization is expected to be used by the end of fiscal 2014. 

Our ratio of debt to equity plus debt was 39.6% and 31.6% as of February 1, 2013, and February 3, 2012, respectively. 

27 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Other than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at February 1, 2013: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Amounts do not include taxes, common area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have historically been insignificant. 

2 Represents commitments related to certain marketing and information technology programs, and purchases of merchandise inventory. 

3 Letters of credit are issued primarily for insurance and construction contracts. 

At February 1, 2013, our reserve for uncertain tax positions (including penalties and interest) was $75 million, of which $11 million was classified as a current liability and $64 million was classified as a noncurrent liability. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements presented in this Form 10-K requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates on historical results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 

28 

Merchandise Inventory 

Description 

We record an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling inventories below cost. This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience. During 2012, our reserve increased approximately $10 million to $57 million as of February 1, 2013. 

We also record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical inventories. This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage results from previous physical inventories. During 2012, the inventory shrinkage reserve increased approximately $1 million to $142 million as of February 1, 2013. 

In addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors’ products. Generally, these vendor funds do not represent the reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the vendor’s product. Therefore, we treat these funds as a reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. Funds that are determined to be reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to sell vendors’ products are recorded as an offset to the related expense. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

We do not believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product quality could result in the need for additional reserves. Likewise, changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing and results of physical inventories. We also apply judgment in the determination of levels of non-productive inventory and assumptions about net realizable value. 

For vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements in place. Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are appropriately recorded. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage during the past three fiscal years. We believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves. However, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded reserves. A 10% change in either the amount of products considered obsolete or the weighted average estimated loss rate used in the calculation of our obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for 2012. A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrinkage reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million for 2012. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds during the past three fiscal years. If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and inventory. However, substantially all receivables associated with these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are collected within the following fiscal year. Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been material. 

29 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment 

Description 

We review the carrying amounts of locations whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When evaluating locations for impairment, our asset group is at an individual location level, as that is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Cash flows for individual locations do not include an allocation of corporate overhead. 

We evaluate locations for triggering events relating to long-lived asset impairment on a quarterly basis to determine when a location’s asset carrying values may not be recoverable. For operating locations, our primary indicator that asset carrying values may not be recoverable is consistently negative cash flow for a 12-month period for those locations that have been open in the same location for a sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating results. Management also monitors other factors when evaluating operating locations for impairment, including individual locations’ execution of their operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the opening of either other Lowe’s locations or those of a direct competitor within the same market. We also consider there to be a triggering event when there is a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a given location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 

A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the location’s assets are less than the carrying amount of the assets. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual operating location, management makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and occupancy expense, as well as asset residual values or lease rates. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. 

We use an income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows. This involves making assumptions regarding both a location’s future cash flows, as described above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those future cash flows. We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash flows. The selected market participants represent a group of other retailers with a market footprint similar in size to ours. 

We use a market approach to determine the fair value of our individual locations identified for closure. This involves making assumptions regarding the estimated selling prices or estimated lease rates by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable sales of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for purchase or lease of these assets. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

Our impairment evaluations require us to apply judgment in determining whether a triggering event has occurred, including the evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. Our impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and controllable expenses, and assumptions about market performance for operating locations and estimated selling prices or lease rates for locations identified for closure. We also apply judgment in estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount rate for fair values determined using an income approach. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

During 2012, 12 operating locations experienced a triggering event and were evaluated for recoverability. Five of the 12 operating locations were determined to be impaired. We recorded impairment losses related to these five operating locations of $55 million during 2012, compared to impairment losses on operating locations and locations identified for closure of $309 million during 2011. 

30 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the future cash flows of operating locations or locations identified for closure during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in determining whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its useful life or in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated impairment losses. 

Seven of the 12 operating locations that experienced a triggering event during 2012 were determined to be recoverable and therefore were not impaired. For these seven locations, the expected undiscounted cash flows substantially exceeded the net book value of the location’s assets. A 10% reduction in projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the latest date that these seven operating locations were evaluated for impairment would have resulted in the impairment of four of these locations and increased recognized impairment losses by approximately $47 million. 

We analyzed other assumptions made in estimating the future cash flows of the operating locations evaluated for impairment, but the sensitivity of those assumptions was not significant to the estimates. 

Store Closing Lease Obligations 

Description 

When locations under operating leases are closed, we recognize a liability for the fair value of future contractual obligations associated with the leased location. The fair value of the store closing lease obligation is determined using an expected present value cash flow model incorporating future minimum lease payments, property taxes, utilities, common area maintenance and other ongoing expenses, net of estimated sublease income and other recoverable items, discounted at a credit-adjusted risk free rate. The expected present value cash flow model uses a probability weighted scenario approach that assigns varying cash flows to certain scenarios based on the expected likelihood of outcomes. Estimating the fair value involves making assumptions regarding estimated sublease income by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable lease rates of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for leasing these assets. Subsequent changes to the liability, including a change resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash flows, are recognized in the period of the change. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

Our store closing lease liability calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, primarily related to estimated sublease income, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

During 2012, the Company relocated one store subject to an operating lease. During 2011, 13 stores under operating lease were closed, which includes one store that was relocated. We recorded $11 million and $76 million of expense for store closing lease obligations during 2012 and 2011, respectively. For 2012, these charges included $9 million related to locations closed or relocated during 2012 and $2 million of adjustments related to previously closed or relocated locations. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the expected future cash flows of closed locations under operating leases during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating expected future cash flows, our store closing lease obligation losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated losses. A 10% change in the store closing lease liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million for 2012. 

Self-Insurance 

Description 

We are self-insured for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation; automobile; general and product liability; extended protection plan; and certain medical and dental claims. Our self-insured retention or deductible, as applicable, is limited to $2 million per occurrence involving workers’ compensation and $3 million per occurrence involving 

31 

automobile, general or product liability. Additionally, a corridor retention of $2 million per occurrence applies to commercial general liability and product liability claims, subject to a $6 million maximum over a three-year period. We do not have any stop loss limits for self-insured extended protection plan or medical and dental claims. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. During 2012, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $35 million to $899 million as of February 1, 2013. During 2012, we reduced the discount rate applied to self-insurance claims by 100 basis points, which resulted in a $20 million unfavorable impact to net earnings. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate  

These estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized discount rate; projected exposures including payroll, sales and vehicle units; as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. Although we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities. A 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $56 million for 2012. A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have affected net earnings by approximately $23 million for 2012. 

Revenue Recognition 

Description 

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenue recognition policies. The following accounting estimates relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with certainty. 

We sell separately-priced extended protection plan contracts under a Lowe’s-branded program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured. The Company recognizes revenues from extended protection plan sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. Extended protection plan contract terms primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the manufacturer’s warranty, as applicable. The Company consistently groups and evaluates extended protection plan contracts based on the characteristics of the underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected losses. A loss on the overall contract would be recognized if the expected costs of performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the contracts. Deferred revenues associated with the extended protection plan contracts increased $11 million to $715 million as of February 1, 2013. 

We defer revenue and cost of sales associated with settled transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. Revenue is deferred based on the actual amounts received. We use historical gross margin rates to estimate the adjustment to cost of sales for these transactions. During 2012, deferred revenues associated with these transactions increased $11 million to $441 million as of February 1, 2013. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

For extended protection plans, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended protection plan contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of the contracts. There is also judgment inherent in our determination of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these contracts. 

For the deferral of revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed, there is judgment inherent in our estimates of gross margin rates. 

32 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on our extended protection plan contracts during the past three fiscal years. We currently do not anticipate incurring any overall contract losses on our extended protection plan contracts. Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended protection plan contracts, it is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates. In addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change. A 10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2012 under these contracts would have affected net earnings by approximately $15 million. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to reverse net sales and cost of sales related to amounts received for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. We believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates related to the impact to cost of sales for these transactions. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may incur additional income or expense. A 10% change in the estimate of the gross margin rates applied to these transactions would have affected net earnings by approximately $7 million in 2012. 

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

We speak throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in forward-looking statements about our future, but particularly in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The words “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” and other similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. While we believe our expectations are reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results could differ substantially from our expectations. 

For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section and in the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report. 

33 

Table of Contents 

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk