Part I 

Item 1 - Business 

General Information 

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 100 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of February 1, 2013, we operated 1,754 stores, comprised of 1,715 stores across 50 U.S. states, 34 stores in Canada and five stores in Mexico. These stores represent approximately 197 million square feet of retail selling space. In 2013, we expect to open approximately 10 stores. 

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW”. 

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Promise 

We strive to be customers’ first choice for home improvement. Customers expect that we will not only sell the products they need and want, but also deliver a full solution by being a partner through each step of the home improvement process, from inspiration and planning to completion and enjoyment. Our goal is to make the process of home improvement as seamless and simple as possible, while ensuring we remain relevant to our customers. We have several initiatives designed to deliver seamless and simple experiences, which include evolving our sales culture across all selling channels, upgrading and continuously enhancing our information technology infrastructure, and allowing access to customers’ project and product status at all relevant touch points. 

Customers, Market and Competition 

Our Customers 

We serve homeowners, renters and commercial business customers (Pro customer). Individual homeowners and renters complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories, construction trade and maintenance & repair organizations. 

Based on our analysis of the market we have identified various types of home improvement customer mindsets. Our target customer mindset is the “creator”, whether they are a homeowner, renter, or Pro customer. Creators seek quality tailored experiences, and are on the lookout for new ideas to improve homes. The creator is the most active in the home improvement category in terms of visits and amount of spend. We believe that if we focus on the needs of these more discerning customers we will meet or exceed the needs of other customers. 

Our Market 

We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2012 was $294 billion, which represented an increase of 5.4% from the total amount reported in 2011. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2011 was $279 billion, which represented an increase of 4.1% over the amount reported for 2010. 

4 

NAICS 444 represents less than half of what we consider the total market for our products and services. The broader market in which Lowe’s operates includes home-related sales through a variety of companies beyond those in NAICS 444. These include other companies in the retail sector, including mass retailers, home furnishings stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, businesses, and the government. Based on our analysis of the most recent comprehensive data available, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market at $645 billion in 2012, comprised of $499 billion of product sales and $146 billion of installed labor sales. 

There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe’s offers. Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, housing turnover, and home ownership levels. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth.  

  ·    Real disposable personal income is projected to grow at a slower pace in 2013 than in 2012, pulled lower by tax increases and the acceleration of dividend and bonus payments into 2012 that were made to allow recipients to avoid higher tax rates in 2013. Real disposable personal income is forecasted to increase 0.9% in calendar 2013, down from the 1.5% gain recorded in 2012, based on the March 2013 Blue Chip Economic Indicators®. *    

  ·    The average unemployment rate for 2013 is forecasted to decline to 7.7% in 2013, according to the March 2013 Blue Chip Economic Indicators. While it is an improvement from the 8.1% average recorded in 2012, the rate remains elevated, suggesting that Americans will continue to face challenging employment prospects this year.    

  ·    Recent evidence suggests that home prices are stabilizing. In 2012, home prices recorded their first year-to-year gains since 2007, according to the Federal Home Finance Agency purchase-only index. The gains were driven by strengthening demand and lower inventories of homes for sale. Economists generally expect home prices to continue to increase at a modest single-digit pace in 2013, but remain well below their peak level reached in 2007.    

  ·    Housing turnover increased 8.9% in 2012 from low levels, according to The National Association of Realtors and U.S. Census Bureau, but remains 40% below its peak in 2005. Turnover is generally expected to continue to increase in 2013, though at a more moderate rate.    

  ·    According to the U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. homeownership rates leveled off at approximately 65.5% in 2012, cushioned by the increase in home buying. That compares with a peak of about 69% in 2004. However, homeownership rates are expected to remain under downward pressure in the coming years as lending standards remain tight and delinquency and foreclosure activity remains elevated.    

These indicators are important to our business because they impact income available to purchase our products and services, or define a key customer base for home maintenance, repair, and upgrade projects. Currently, these indicators suggest moderately improving consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we sell. However, in this uncertain economic environment, we continue to balance implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on improving performance and maintaining adequate liquidity. 

Our Competition 

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with other home improvement warehouse chains and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, online and other specialty retailers. Our customers value reputation, customer experience, quality and price of merchandise, and range and availability of products and services. Location of stores also continues to be a key competitive factor in our industry. However, the increasing use of technology and the simplicity of online shopping also underline the importance of multi-channel presence as a competitive factor. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

*Blue Chip Economic Indicators® (ISSN: 0193-4600) is published monthly by Aspen Publishers, 76 Ninth Avenue, New York, NY 10011, a division of Wolters Kluwer Law and Business. Printed in the U.S.A.  

5 

Products and Services 

Our Products 

Product Selection 

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, and home decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Plumbing; Appliances; Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment; Lawn & Garden; Fashion Electrical; Lumber; Seasonal Living; Paint; Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning; Flooring; Millwork; Building Materials; Hardware; and Cabinets & Countertops. A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system, Lowes.com, Lowes.ca and ATGstores.com. In 2012, Lowe’s implemented flexible fulfillment, which allows the customer to order parcel post eligible products that are stocked in a regional distribution center (RDC), a store, or in a vendor's distribution center, and have them shipped directly to a home or place of business. Most items can be ordered and delivered within two days. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of private brands. In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring product is sourced in a responsible, efficient, and cost effective manner through our supply chain. 

National Brand Name Merchandise 

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s store carries a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, GE® and Samsung® appliances, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Sylvania® light bulbs, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding, Husqvarna® outdoor power equipment, Werner® ladders and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Private Brands 

Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to differentiate us from the competition with unique innovations and designs and providing a value alternative to national brands. We sell private brands throughout our stores including Tools, Seasonal Living, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Paint, Fashion Plumbing, Flooring, Millwork, Hardware, Fashion Electrical and Lumber. Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Blue Hawk® home improvement products, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets, sinks and toilets, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans, Top Choice® lumber products and Iris® home automation and management products. 

Supply Chain 

We source our products from over 7,000 vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 7% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated RDCs in the United States, with a fifteenth RDC expected to open in the first quarter of 2013. On average, each domestic RDC currently serves approximately 120 stores. In addition, we lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. 

We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders and building materials. Additionally, we 

6 

operate four facilities to support our import business and flexible fulfillment capabilities. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities, which are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. 

On average, in fiscal 2012, approximately 75% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors. 

Our Services 

Installed Sales 

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Millwork and Cabinets & Countertops accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 7% of total sales in fiscal 2012. 

Pro Services 

During 2012, we rebranded our commercial business program as Pro Services with the intent of re-energizing our focus on the Pro customer. Pro Services employees are a dedicated team that supports the Pro customer. To meet the needs of our Pro customer, we provide job lot quantities in categories such as Building Materials, Plumbing, Electrical, Hardware, Paint, and Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment that are critical to the success of the Pro customer. In addition, we provide Pro customers 5% off their purchases every day when they use Lowe's proprietary credit. 

Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services 

We offer extended protection plans in Appliances and Tools & Outdoor Power Equipment. Lowe’s extended protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends the manufacturer’s warranty. We provide in-warranty and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment and tools through our stores or in the home through our Lowe’s Authorized Service Repair Network. Our contact center takes the calls, diagnoses the problems, and facilitates the resolutions making after-sales service simpler for customers because we manage the entire process. 

Credit Financing 

We offer a proprietary consumer credit card for retail customers under an agreement with GE Capital Retail Bank. This program provides Lowe's consumer credit cardholders with 5% off their purchases every day. For purchases above $299, customers have their choice of short-term no-interest financing or the 5% off value. For purchases above $3,500, customers have their choice of 5.99% interest for 84 months or the 5% off value. 

We also offer proprietary credit programs for Pro customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small to medium size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium to large size businesses that pay in full each month. These programs provide a 5% discount to Pro customers when they use their Lowe’s commercial credit account. We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®, which also offers 5% off everyday purchases. 

For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

MyLowes 

In 2011, we introduced MyLowes, a new online tool that is unique in the home improvement industry and makes managing, maintaining and improving homes simpler and more intuitive. Using the capabilities provided by MyLowes, customers can create home profiles, save room dimensions and paint colors, organize owners' manuals and product warranties, create shopping, to-do and wish lists for projects on the horizon, set recurring reminders for common 

7 

maintenance items and store purchase history from across all Lowe's channels. Since the introduction in 2011, there have been over 18 million unique key fob swipes, and over 5 million registered users on MyLowes. 

Selling Channels 

We have multiple channels through which we engage customers and sell our products and services, including in-store, online, on-site and contact centers. Although we sell through all of these channels, our primary channel to fulfill customer orders continues to be our retail home improvement stores. Regardless of the channel through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. 

In-Store 

Our 1,754 retail home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our stores now have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience. 

Online 

Through Lowes.com, Lowes.ca, ATGstores.com and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them confidence as they undertake home improvement projects. Providing mobile technology and applications to customers and to our associates is an important first step towards seamless and simple experiences, and allows us to participate in the evolution to mobile technology. Lowes.com accounted for approximately 1.5% of our total sales, and our consumer facing mobile properties have grown to represent 20% of overall Lowes.com traffic. We also enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store as well as parcel shipment to their homes. 

On-Site 

We have on-site specialists available to retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Account Executives ProServices meet with Pro customers in their place of business or on a job site and leverage stores within the area to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in most Lowe’s stores to discuss exterior projects such as roofing, siding, fencing, and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. In addition, our Project Specialist Interiors (PSI) program, launched in 2012, is available in certain locations to provide similar consultative services on interior projects such as kitchens and bathrooms. PSE and PSI employees take the measurements, produce a quote, and tender the sale in the customer's home. 

Contact Centers 

Lowe’s has two contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, NC, and Albuquerque, NM. These contact centers provide direct support, including sales tendering, to customers who contact them via phone, e-mail or letter. They also provide store support, online sales support, and facilitate repair services. 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2013, we employed approximately 160,000 full-time and 85,000 part-time employees. No employees in the U.S. or Canada are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Certain employees in Mexico are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good. 

8 

Seasonality and Working Capital 

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Intellectual Property 

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional trademarks, trade names and service marks, many of which are used in our private brand program. The subsidiary also maintains various Internet domain names that are important to our business. We also own registered and unregistered copyrights, and maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations. 

Environmental Stewardship 

Lowe’s environmental stewardship has been defined by addressing our company’s environmental footprint and helping our customers do the same. 

Lowe’s recognizes how efficient operations can help protect the environment and our bottom line. We examine our operations to deliver efficiencies in energy and water use, fuel consumption, and waste and recycling. We annually track our carbon footprint and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent nonprofit organization hosting the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. To further reduce our footprint, we design energy-efficient features (energy-efficient lighting, white membrane cool roofs and HVAC units that meet or exceed ENERGY STAR® qualifications) into new stores and during retrofits of existing stores and participate in demand response programs where we voluntarily reduce our lighting and HVAC loads during peak electrical demand periods. 

We also strive to deliver products to our stores in an environmentally responsible manner. We achieve that through participation in the SmartWay® Transport Partnership, an innovative program launched by the EPA in 2004 that promotes environmentally cleaner, more fuel-efficient transportation options. Lowe’s received a 2012 SmartWay Excellence Award, our fourth consecutive SmartWay honor, for initiatives that resulted in reduced emissions, greater fuel efficiency and less overall highway congestion. Our efforts included increasing shipping by rail, increasing efficiency of truckload shipments and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay carriers. 

We are also focused on helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money through our products and services. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, including ENERGY STAR appliances, WaterSense® labeled toilets, paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC), indoor and outdoor LED lighting, and, in certain states, electric vehicle charging stations. Through our in-home sales specialists we offer customers installation of insulation and energy efficient windows. Additionally, we offer in-store customer recycling for plastic bags, CFLs, plastic plant containers and rechargeable batteries.  

Our role in helping consumers with their conservation was recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with our third consecutive ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award (2010-2012), which honors our long-standing leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products. Lowe’s has received 10 consecutive ENERGY STAR awards (2003-2012), including four ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the 

9 

Table of Contents 

benefits of energy efficiency. In 2012, the EPA WaterSense program also honored Lowe’s with our fourth consecutive award for employee training, consumer education and national efforts to promote water conservation. 

For more information on Lowe’s environmental leadership efforts, please visit Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility. 

Compliance with Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs, as utilities, refineries, and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to additional regulation or legislation that results in greater control over greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2013 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations. 

Reaching Out / Our Community 

Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects. In 2012, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. LCEF was created in 1957 to assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to become involved through volunteerism. In 2012, Lowe’s and LCEF supported more than 8,000 community and education projects. LCEF funds our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and national partnerships such as SkillsUSA® and the Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Lowe’s Toolbox for Education grants totaling more than $34 million have benefited approximately 4 million schoolchildren since 2006. Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® since 2003 to combat substandard housing. Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also partner with customers to support the American Red Cross, contributing more than $24 million since 1999. Lowe’s encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a companywide initiative. Lowe's Heroes participated in more than 1,300 projects across North America in 2012. For more information on our community involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility. 

Available Information 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Item 1A - Risk Factors