Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley” or the “Company” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Parent”) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Effective with the quarter ended June 30, 2013, the Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments were re-titled Wealth Management and Investment Management, respectively.  

A summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:  

Institutional Securities provides financial advisory and capital-raising services, including: advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Wealth Management provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and engages in fixed income trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.  

Investment Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes, and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.  

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the Company’s discontinued operations.  

The results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including: the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary) and legal and regulatory actions in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income, and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements; the Company’s reputation; inflation, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management policies; technological changes and risks, including cybersecurity risks; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the Company’s businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Other Matters” herein.  

52  

Table of Contents 

The discussion of the Company’s results of operations below may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect management’s beliefs and expectations, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s future results, see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Executive Summary—Significant Items” and “Other Matters” herein.  

    53      

Table of Contents 

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

54  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    55      

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/M—Not Meaningful.  

DVA—Debt Valuation Adjustment represents the change in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings resulting from the fluctuation in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors.  

 (1) On January 1, 2013, the International Wealth Management business was transferred from the Wealth Management business segment to the Equity division within the Institutional Securities business segment. Accordingly, all results and statistical data have been recast for all periods to reflect the International Wealth Management business as part of the Institutional Securities business segment.  

 (2) See Notes 2, 3 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on redeemable and nonredeemable noncontrolling interests.  

 (3) See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on discontinued operations.  

 (4) For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (5) Regional net revenues reflect the regional view of the Company’s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis. For further discussion regarding the geographic methodology for net revenues, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (6)  The calculation of each business segment’s return on average common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of each business segment’s average common equity. The return on average common equity is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (“non-GAAP”) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance. The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company’s Required Capital framework (“Required Capital Framework”), an internal capital adequacy measure (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Required Capital” herein). The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segments’ return on average common equity were determined on a separate legal entity basis. To  

56  

Table of Contents 

     determine the return on consolidated average common equity, excluding the impact of DVA, also a non-GAAP financial measure, both the numerator and the denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA. The impact of DVA in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was (0.6)%, (5.1)% and 4.2%, respectively.  

 (7) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $62,701 million at December 31, 2013, $60,601 million at December 31, 2012 and $60,541 million at December 31, 2011 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,945 million at December 31, 2013, 1,974 million at December 31, 2012 and 1,927 million at December 31, 2011. Book value per common share in 2011 was reduced by approximately $2.61 per share as a result of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”) stock conversion (see “Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein).  

 (8) Average tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Management” herein.  

 (9) Return on average tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. The calculation of return on average tangible common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average tangible common equity. To determine the return on average tangible common equity, excluding the impact of DVA, also a non-GAAP financial measure, both the numerator and the denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA. The impact of DVA in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was (0.7)%, (5.8)% and 4.8%, respectively.  

 (10) Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity of $52,828 million at December 31, 2013, $53,014 million at December 31, 2012 and $53,850 million at December 31, 2011 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,945 million at December 31, 2013, 1,974 million at December 31, 2012 and 1,927 million at December 31, 2011. Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy.  

 (11) For a discussion of the effective income tax rate, see “Overview of 2013 Financial Results” and “Significant Items—Income Tax Items” herein.  

 (12) For a discussion of Global Liquidity Reserve, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Risk Management Framework—Global Liquidity Reserve” herein.  

 (13) As of December 31, 2013, the Company calculated its Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios and risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). These standards are based upon a framework described in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards, July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. On January 1, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators’ rules to implement the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as “Basel 2.5”, became effective, which increased the capital requirements for securitizations and correlation trading within the Company’s trading book, as well as incorporated add-ons for stressed Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) and incremental risk requirements (“market risk capital framework amendment”). The Company’s Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios and RWAs for 2013 were calculated under this revised framework. The Company’s Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios and RWAs for prior periods have not been recalculated under this revised framework. For a discussion of Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

 (14) For a discussion of Tier 1 leverage ratio, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

 (15) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments.  

 (16) Amounts exclude the Investment Management business segment’s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

 (17) Prior-period amounts have been recast to exclude Quilter & Co. Ltd. (“Quilter”). See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on discontinued operations.  

 (18) Pre-tax profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess operating performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (19) At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, global representatives for the Company were 16,784, 16,780 and 17,512, which include approximately 328, 428 and 479 representatives associated with the International Wealth Management business, the results of which are reported in the Institutional Securities business segment, respectively.  

 (20) Annual revenues per representative in 2013, 2012 and 2011 equal Wealth Management business segment’s annual revenues divided by the average representative headcount in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

 (21) Fee-based client assets represent the amount of assets in client accounts where the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those assets. Effective in 2013, client assets also include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the purchase of the remaining interest in the retail securities joint venture between the Company and Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) (the “Wealth Management JV”) platform conversion.  

 (22) Client assets per representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end representative headcount.  

 (23) Beginning January 1, 2013, the Company enhanced its definition of fee-based asset flows. Fee-based asset flows have been recast for all periods to include dividends, interest and client fees and to exclude cash management related activity.  

 (24)  Approximately $104 billion, $72 billion and $56 billion of the bank deposit balances at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, are held at Company-affiliated depositories with the remainder held at Citi affiliated depositories. The Company considers the remaining deposits held with Citi affiliated depositories a non-GAAP measure, which the Company and investors use to assess deposits in the  

    57      

Table of Contents 

     Wealth Management business segment. The deposit balances are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insured depository institutions for the benefit of the Company’s clients through their accounts. For additional information regarding deposits, see Notes 3, 10 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Management—Deposits” herein.  

 (25) From time to time, the Company may disclose certain “non-GAAP financial measures” in the course of its earnings releases, earnings conference calls, financial presentations and otherwise. For these purposes, “GAAP” refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission defines a “non-GAAP financial measure” as a numerical measure of historical or future financial performance, financial positions, or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts or is subject to adjustments that effectively exclude, or include, amounts from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide them with further transparency about, or an alternative method for assessing, our financial condition and operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP, and may be different from or inconsistent with non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Whenever the Company refers to a non-GAAP financial measure, the Company will also generally present the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, along with a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measure and the GAAP financial measure.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

58  

Table of Contents 

Global Market and Economic Conditions.  

During 2013, global market and economic conditions showed improvement from 2012, though significant uncertainty remained. Investor sentiment was boosted by encouraging signs of improvement in the global economy during the second half of 2013. The U.S. economy continued its moderate growth pace, but while as a whole the recession in the euro-area came to an end, significant pockets of slow or negative growth remained in Europe. During 2013, global market and economic conditions were also challenged by investor concerns about the U.S. longer-term budget outlook and the scaling back of monetary stimulus, the remaining European sovereign debt issues and slowing economic growth in emerging markets. Shorter-term concerns over the U.S. budget standoff were resolved in late 2013 as Congress came to a tentative agreement on federal government funding for the next two fiscal years. The agreement was in response to a shut-down of the U.S. federal government that lasted for 16 days during October 2013. Elsewhere, especially in parts of Europe, growth remains stymied by fiscal and longer-term structural issues in the economy.  

In the U.S., major equity market indices ended the year significantly higher compared with year-end 2012. The U.S. economy continued its moderate growth pace in 2013. Labor market conditions improved as the unemployment rate declined to 6.7% at December 31, 2013 from 7.9% at December 31, 2012. Consumer spending and business investment advanced during 2013. The housing market generally strengthened in 2013, although rising mortgage rates have resulted in recent softness in housing starts and home sales. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation has been running below the Federal Reserve’s longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. The Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) of the Federal Reserve kept key interest rates at historically low levels. At December 31, 2013, the federal funds target rate remained between 0.0% and 0.25%, and the discount rate remained at 0.75%. Earlier in 2013 concerns about the Federal Reserve’s plan to scale back its monetary stimulus plan caused investors to sell off holdings. Subsequently, the FOMC announced in December that it would be decreasing its purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities in January 2014. The continuing U.S. recovery, though tepid, is also relieving some of the pressure on the federal budget experienced during the past several years.  

In Europe, major equity market indices finished 2013 higher compared with year-end 2012. Euro-area gross domestic product started to grow in the second quarter of 2013, and the European Central Bank (“ECB”) views this as a gradual recovery in economic conditions, albeit with significant downside risks. The euro-area unemployment rate increased to 12.0% at December 31, 2013 from 11.9% at 2012 year-end. At December 31, 2013, Bank of England’s benchmark interest rate was 0.5%, which was unchanged from December 31, 2012. To stimulate economic activity in Europe, during 2013 the ECB lowered the benchmark interest rate from 0.75% to 0.25% and indicated it will keep open its special liquidity facilities until at least the middle of 2014.  

Major equity market indices in Asia ended the year higher, with the notable exception of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index in China. Japan’s economic activity grew moderately during 2013, primarily resulting from a series of economic stimulus packages announced by the Japanese government and the Bank of Japan (“BOJ”) in early 2013. The BOJ maintained its monetary stimulus plan during the remainder of 2013. The pace of China’s economic growth slowed during 2013, though China’s overall growth was still strong compared with the U.S., Europe and Japan. During 2013, the Chinese government began to implement reforms to restructure its economy away from reliance on exports and investments and toward more sustainable growth driven by domestic consumption.  

Overview of 2013 Financial Results.  

Consolidated Results. The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $2,932 million on net revenues of $32,417 million in 2013 compared with net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $68 million on net revenues of $26,102 million in 2012.  

Net revenues in 2013 included negative revenues due to the impact of DVA of $681 million compared with negative revenues of $4,402 million in 2012. Non-interest expenses increased 9% to $27,935 million in 2013 compared with $25,582 million in 2012. Compensation expenses increased 4% to $16,277 million in 2013  

    59      

Table of Contents 

 compared with $15,615 million in 2012. Non-compensation expenses increased 17% to $11,658 million in 2013 compared with $9,967 million in 2012. The increase in non-compensation expenses primarily reflected higher legal expenses.  

Earnings (loss) per diluted common share (“diluted EPS”) and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $1.36 and $1.38, respectively, in 2013 compared with $(0.02) and $0.02, respectively, in 2012. The diluted EPS calculation for 2013 included a negative adjustment of approximately $151 million related to the purchase of the remaining interest in the Wealth Management JV, which was completed in June 2013.  

Excluding the impact of DVA, net revenues were $33,098 million, and diluted EPS from continuing operations was $1.61 per share in 2013 compared with $30,504 million and $1.64 per share, respectively, in 2012.  

The Company’s effective tax rate from continuing operations was 18.4% for 2013. The effective tax rate included an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $407 million. Excluding this aggregate discrete net tax benefit, the effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2013 would have been 27.5%.  

Institutional Securities. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $869 million in 2013 compared with a loss from continuing operations before taxes of $1,688 million in 2012. Net revenues for 2013 were $15,443 million compared with $11,025 million in 2012. The results in 2013 included negative revenues due to the impact of DVA of $681 million compared with negative revenues of $4,402 million in 2012. Investment banking revenues for 2013 increased 11% from 2012 to $4,377 million, reflecting higher revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by lower advisory revenues. The following sales and trading net revenues results exclude the impact of DVA. Sales and trading net revenues are composed of: trading revenues; commissions and fees; asset management, distribution and administration fees; and net interest revenues (expenses). The presentation of net revenues excluding the impact of DVA is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, of $6,607 million increased 11% from 2012, reflecting strong performance across most products and regions from higher client activity, with particular strength in prime brokerage. Excluding the impact of DVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $4,197 million in 2013, a decrease of 25% from 2012, reflecting lower levels of client activity across most products. Net investment gains of $707 million were recognized in 2013, compared with net investment gains of $219 million in 2012, primarily reflecting a gain on the disposition of an investment in an insurance broker. Other revenues of $608 million were recognized in 2013 compared with other revenues of $203 million in 2012. Other revenues included income arising from the Company’s 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”) (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Non-interest expenses increased 15% in 2013 to $14,574 million, primarily due to higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2013 decreased 2% from 2012 to $6,823 million, primarily due to lower headcount. Non-compensation expenses were $7,751 million in 2013 compared with $5,735 million in 2012, reflecting the increased level of legal expenses.  

Wealth Management. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $2,629 million in 2013 compared with $1,622 million in 2012. Net revenues were $14,214 million in 2013 compared with $13,034 million in 2012. Transactional revenues, consisting of Trading, Commissions and fees and Investment banking increased 8% from 2012 to $4,293 million. Trading revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $1,161 million in 2013, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from fixed income products. Commissions and fees revenues increased 6% from 2012 to $2,209 million in 2013, primarily due to higher equity, mutual fund and alternatives activity. Investment banking revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $923 million in 2013, primarily due to higher levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds and unit trusts. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 6% from 2012 to $7,638 million in 2013, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. Net interest increased 20% from 2012 to $1,880 million in 2013, primarily due to  

60  

Table of Contents 

 higher balances in the bank deposit program and growth in loans and lending commitments in Portfolio Loan Account (“PLA”) securities-based lending products. In addition, interest expense declined in 2013 due to the Company’s redemption of all Class A Preferred Interests owned by Citi and its affiliates, in connection with the Company’s acquisition of 100% ownership of the Wealth Management JV effective at the end of the second quarter of 2013. Total client asset balances were $1,909 billion at December 31, 2013 and client assets in fee-based accounts were $697 billion, or 37% of total client assets. Fee-based client asset flows for 2013 were $51.9 billion compared with $26.9 billion in 2012. Prior period amounts have been recast to reflect the transfer of the International Wealth Management business from the Wealth Management business segment to the Institutional Securities business segment and for the Company’s enhanced definition of fee-based asset flows (see “Business Segments” herein). Compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% from 2012 to $8,271 million in 2013, primarily due to higher compensable revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 8% from 2012 to $3,314 million in 2013, primarily driven by the absence of platform integration costs and non-recurring technology write-offs, partially offset by an impairment expense of $36 million related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investment funds in 2013.  

Investment Management. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $984 million in 2013 compared with $590 million in 2012. Net revenues were $2,988 million in 2013 compared with $2,219 million in 2012. The increase in net revenues reflected higher net investment gains predominantly within the Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and higher gains on certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Results in 2013 also included an additional allocation of fund income to the Company as general partner, upon exceeding cumulative fund performance thresholds (“carried interest”). Non-interest expenses were $2,004 million in 2013 compared with $1,629 million in 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 41% to $1,183 million in 2013, primarily due to higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses increased 4% to $821 million in 2013, primarily due to higher brokerage and clearing and professional services expenses, partially offset by lower information processing expenses.  

Significant Items.  

Litigation. The Company incurred litigation expenses of approximately $1,952 million in 2013, $513 million in 2012 and $151 million in 2011. The litigation expenses incurred in 2013 were primarily due to settlements and reserve additions related to residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis-related matters (see “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Litigation expenses are included in Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income. The Company expects future litigation expenses in general to continue to be elevated, and the changes in expenses from period to period may fluctuate significantly, given the current environment regarding financial crisis-related government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Company.  

Investment Gains. The Company’s Investments revenues increased to $1,777 million in 2013 compared with $742 million in 2012. Of this increase, $543 million related to higher net investment gains and to a lesser extent the benefit of carried interest within the Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses in the Investment Management business segment. In addition, the increase includes a gain on the disposition of an investment in an insurance broker in 2013 in the Institutional Securities business segment.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded income (loss) of $570 million, $152 million and $(783) million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS. Net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests associated with MUFG’s interest in Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”) was $259 million, $163 million and $1 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

In June 2013, MUMSS paid a dividend of approximately $287 million, of which the Company received approximately $115 million for its proportionate share of MUMSS.  

    61      

Table of Contents 

Income Tax Items. In 2013, the Company recognized an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $407 million. This included discrete tax benefits of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with new information regarding the status of certain tax authority examinations; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million that is attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the retroactive effective date of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the “Relief Act”). The Relief Act that was enacted on January 2, 2013, among other things, extended with retroactive effect to January 1, 2012 a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside the U.S. until such income is repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend.  

In 2012, the Company recognized an aggregate net tax benefit of $142 million. This included a discrete tax benefit of $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations and an aggregate out-of-period net tax provision of $157 million, to adjust the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments, principally in the Company’s Investment Management business segment and repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Corporate Lending. The Company recorded the following amounts primarily associated with loans and lending commitments within the Institutional Securities business segment (see “Business Segments—Institutional Securities” herein):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Effective April 2012, the Company began accounting for all new originated loans and lending commitments as either held for investment or held for sale.  

Wealth Management JV. The Company completed the purchase of the remaining 35% interest in the Wealth Management JV from Citi on June 28, 2013 for the previously established price of $4.725 billion. The Company recorded a negative adjustment to retained earnings of approximately $151 million (net of tax) in 2013 to reflect the difference between the purchase price for the 35% interest in the joint venture and its carrying value. In 2012, the Company purchased an additional 14% stake in the Wealth Management JV from Citi for $1.89 billion, increasing the Company’s interest from 51% to 65%. The Company recorded a negative adjustment to Paid-in-capital of approximately $107 million (net of tax) to reflect the difference between the purchase price for the 14% interest in the Wealth Management JV and its carrying value. Also in 2012, the Wealth Management business segment’s non-interest expenses included approximately $173 million of non-recurring costs related to the Wealth Management JV integration. For more information, see Note 3 to the consolidated statements in Item 8.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Available for Sale Securities. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, the available for sale portfolio held within the Wealth Management business segment reported unrealized gains (losses) of $(433) million, $28 million and $87 million, net of tax, respectively, that were included in Accumulated other comprehensive income. The unrealized losses were primarily due to changes in interest rates. The securities in the Company’s available for sale portfolio with an unrealized loss were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. For more information, see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Monoline Insurers. The results for 2011 included losses of $1,838 million related to the Company’s counterparty credit exposures to Monoline Insurers (“Monolines”), principally MBIA Insurance Corporation (“MBIA”).  

During 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The settlement terminated outstanding credit default swap (“CDS”) protection purchased from MBIA on commercial mortgage-backed securities and resolved pending litigation between the two parties for consideration of a net cash payment to the Company.  

MUFG Stock Conversion. On June 30, 2011, the Company’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock owned by MUFG with a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into 385,464,097 shares of the Company’s common stock, including approximately 75 million shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement. As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during 2011.  

European Peripheral Countries. On December 22, 2011, the Company entered into agreements to restructure certain derivative transactions that decreased its exposure to obligors in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the “European Peripherals”). As a result, the Company’s results in 2011 included interest rate product revenues of approximately $600 million related primarily to the release of credit valuation adjustments associated with the transactions, reported within Trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income.  

Huaxin Securities Joint Venture. In June 2011, the Company and Huaxin Securities Co., Ltd. (also known as China Fortune Securities Co., Ltd.) jointly announced the operational commencement of their securities joint venture in China. During 2011, the Company recorded initial costs of $130 million related to the formation of this joint venture in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

Business Segments.  

Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses are allocated to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.  

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment Eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Institutional Securities business segment to the Wealth Management business segment related to the bank deposit program.  

On January 1, 2013, the International Wealth Management business was transferred from the Wealth Management business segment to the Equity division within the Institutional Securities business segment. Accordingly, all results and statistical data have been recast for all periods to reflect the International Wealth Management business as part of the Institutional Securities business segment.  

    63      

Table of Contents 

Net Revenues.   

Trading. Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as a market maker as well as gains and losses on the Company’s related positions. Trading revenues include the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and dividends from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to market-making positions. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in the Commissions and fees line item. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them, and fees for related services would be recorded in Commissions and fees.  

The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge its obligations under its deferred compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits. Compensation expense is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted, adjusted for upward and downward changes in fair value of the referenced investment and is recognized ratably over the prescribed vesting period for the award. Generally, changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in fair value of the referenced investment will be offset by changes in fair value of investments made by the Company. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate revenue recognition of gains and losses on the Company’s investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.  

As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company’s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others, customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities, across all of its trading businesses, that include, but are not limited to: (i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to, customer demand to buy or sell and—depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position—to hold those positions for a period of time; (ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining and rebalancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Although not included in Trading revenues, interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities as debt securities held by the Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.  

Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s holdings as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans (as mentioned above). Typically, there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of time that the Company is clearing trades  

64  

Table of Contents 

 on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.  

Commissions and Fees. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter (“OTC”) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Wealth Management business segment also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Wealth Management business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

Asset management fees in the Investment Management business segment arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees in the Investment Management business segment are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Net Interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including trading assets and trading liabilities; securities available for sale; securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell; securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase; loans; deposits; commercial paper and other short-term borrowings; long-term borrowings; trading strategies; customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business; and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) and Securities borrowed and Securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenues on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

Lending Activities.  

The Company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through its U.S. bank subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MSPBNA”). The Company’s lending activities in the Institutional Securities business segment primarily include corporate lending activities, in which the Company provides loans or lending commitments to selected corporate clients. In addition to corporate lending activity, the Institutional Securities business segment engages to a lesser extent in other lending activity, including corporate loans purchased and sold in the secondary market. The Company’s lending activities in the Wealth Management business segment principally include margin loans collateralized by securities, securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities in PLAs and residential mortgage lending. The Company’s lending activities have grown during 2013 and 2012 and the Company expects this trend to continue. For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Item 7A. See also Notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about the Company’s financing receivables and lending commitments, respectively.  

    65      

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior-period amounts have been recast to reflect the transfer of the International Wealth Management business from the Wealth Management business segment to the Institutional Securities business segment.  

Supplemental Financial Information.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Investment banking revenues were as follows:   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the Company’s volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 14, 2014. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.  

 (2) Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more. Announced mergers and acquisitions exclude terminated transactions.  

 (3) Amounts include Rule 144A and public common stock, convertible and rights offerings.  

 (4) Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Amounts also include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues.  

Sales and trading net revenues are composed of Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest revenues (expenses). See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of the above-referenced components of sales and trading revenues. In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to trading are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments.  

    67      

Table of Contents 

Sales and trading net revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation. For further information, see “Business Segments” herein and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Sales and trading net revenues by business were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation. For further information, see “Business Segments” herein and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (2) Other sales and trading net revenues include net losses associated with costs related to the amount of liquidity held (“negative carry”), net gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and net gains (losses) from certain loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company’s lending activities.  

The following sales and trading net revenues results exclude the impact of DVA (see footnote 2 in the following table). The reconciliation of sales and trading, including equity sales and trading and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues, from a non-GAAP to a GAAP basis is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation. For further information, see “Business Segments” herein and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (2) Sales and trading net revenues, including fixed income and commodities and equity sales and trading net revenues that exclude the impact of DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance.  

68  

Table of Contents 

2013 Compared with 2012.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2013 increased 11% from 2012, reflecting higher revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by lower advisory revenues. Overall, underwriting revenues of $3,067 million increased 20% from 2012. Equity underwriting revenues increased 41% to $1,262 million in 2013, largely driven by increased client activity across Europe, Asia and the Americas. Fixed income underwriting revenues were $1,805 million in 2013, an increase of 8% from 2012, reflecting a continued favorable debt underwriting environment. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions (“M&A”) were $1,310 million in 2013, a decrease of 4% from 2012, reflective of the lower level of deal activity in 2013. Industry-wide announced M&A activity for 2013 was relatively flat compared with 2012, with increases in the Americas offset by decreases in Europe, Middle East and Africa.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Total sales and trading net revenues increased to $9,751 million in 2013 from $6,673 million in 2012, reflecting higher revenues in equity and fixed income sales and trading net revenues and lower losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues increased to $6,529 million in 2013 from $4,811 million in 2012. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues included negative revenue due to the impact of DVA of $78 million in 2013 compared with negative revenue of $1,130 million in 2012. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, increased 11% to $6,607 million in 2013 from 2012, reflecting strong performance across most products and regions, from higher client activity with particular strength in prime brokerage.  

In 2013, equity sales and trading net revenues also reflected gains of $37 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other factors compared with gains of $68 million in 2012. The Company also recorded losses of $15 million in 2013 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $243 million in 2012. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $3,594 million in 2013 compared with net revenues of $2,358 million in 2012. Results in 2013 included negative revenue of $603 million due to the impact of DVA compared with negative revenue of $3,272 million in 2012. Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2013 decreased 26% over 2012, primarily reflecting lower levels of client activity across most products and significant revenue declines in interest rate products. Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2013 decreased 38% over 2012, primarily reflecting lower levels of client activity across energy markets.  

In 2013, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues reflected gains of $127 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $128 million in 2012 due to the widening of such spreads and other factors. The Company also recorded losses of $114 million in 2013 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $482 million in 2012. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. In addition to the equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues discussed above, sales and trading net revenues included other trading revenues, consisting of costs related to negative carry, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and certain activities associated with the Company’s corporate lending activities. Effective April 1, 2012, the Company began accounting for all new corporate loans and lending commitments as either held for investment or held for sale.  

Other sales and trading net losses were $372 million in 2013 compared with net losses of $496 million in 2012. The results in both periods included net losses related to negative carry and losses on economic hedges and other  

    69      

Table of Contents 

 costs related to the Company’s long-term debt. The results in 2013 and 2012 were partially offset by net gains of $440 million and $740 million, respectively, associated with corporate loans and lending commitments.  

Net Interest. Net interest expense decreased to $1,101 million in 2013 from $1,747 million in 2012, primarily due to lower costs associated with the Company’s long-term borrowings.  

Investments. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Investments.  

Net investment gains of $707 million were recognized in 2013 compared with net investment gains of $219 million in 2012. The increase primarily reflected a gain on the disposition of an investment in an insurance broker. The results in 2013 and 2012 included mark-to-market gains on principal investments in real estate funds and net gains from investments associated with the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

Other. Other revenues of $608 million were recognized in 2013 compared with other revenues of $203 million in 2012. The results in 2013 primarily included income of $570 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS, compared with income of $152 million in 2012 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). The gains in both periods were partially offset by the provision for loan losses and losses associated with investments in low-income housing and alternative energy.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 15% in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 2% in 2013, primarily due to lower headcount. Results included severance expenses of $141 million related to reductions in force in 2013 compared with $120 million in 2012. Non-compensation expenses increased 35% in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase primarily reflected additions to legal expenses for litigation and investigations related to residential mortgage-backed securities and the credit crisis (see “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Brokerage, clearing and exchange expenses increased 16% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to higher volumes of activity. Information processing and communications expenses decreased 9% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to lower technology costs. Professional services expenses increased 5% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to higher consulting expenses related to the Company’s technology platform.  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2012 decreased 7% from 2011, reflecting lower revenues from advisory and equity underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher revenues from fixed income underwriting transactions. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,369 million in 2012, a decrease of 21% from 2011, reflecting lower completed market volumes. Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,561 million increased 2% from 2011. Fixed income underwriting revenues were $1,669 million in 2012, an increase of 23% from 2011, reflecting increased bond issuance volumes. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 22% to $892 million in 2012, reflecting lower levels of market activity.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Total sales and trading net revenues decreased to $6,673 million in 2012 from $13,440 million in 2011, reflecting lower revenues in fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues and equity sales and trading net revenues, partially offset by lower losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues decreased 34% to $4,811 million in 2012 from 2011. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues included negative revenue in 2012 of $1,130 million due to the impact of DVA compared with positive revenue of $619 million in 2011 due to the impact of DVA. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2012 decreased 11% from 2011, reflecting lower revenues in the cash business, as a result of lower volumes.  

In 2012, equity sales and trading net revenues reflected gains of $68 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with losses of $38 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The  

70  

Table of Contents 

 Company also recorded losses of $243 million in 2012 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $182 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other credit factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $2,358 million in 2012 compared with net revenues of $7,506 million in 2011. Results in 2012 included negative revenue of $3,272 million due to the impact of DVA, compared with positive revenue of $3,062 million in 2011 due to the impact of DVA. Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2012 increased 45% over 2011, reflecting higher results in interest rate, foreign exchange and credit products, including higher levels of client activity in securitized products, with results in 2011 being negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monolines, including a loss approximating $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the Company’s comprehensive settlement with MBIA (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also included interest rate product revenues of approximately $600 million, primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivative transactions that decreased the Company’s exposure to the European Peripherals (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—European Peripheral Countries” herein for further information). Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, decreased 20% in 2012 due to a difficult market environment. Results in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a loss of approximately $108 million upon application of the overnight indexed swap (“OIS”) curve to certain fixed income products (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

In 2012, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues reflected losses of $128 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with losses of $1,249 million, including Monolines, in 2011. The Company also recorded losses of $482 million in 2012 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $746 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. Other sales and trading net losses were $496 million in 2012 compared with net losses of $1,329 million in 2011. The results in both years included losses related to negative carry. The 2012 results included losses on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt compared with gains in 2011. Results in 2012 were partially offset by net gains of $740 million associated with loans and lending commitments. Results in 2011 included net losses of approximately $631 million associated with loans and lending commitments. The results in 2012 also included net investment gains in the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans compared with net losses in 2011.  

Net Interest. Net interest expense increased to $1,747 million in 2012 from $1,040 million in 2011, primarily due to lower revenues from securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed transactions.  

Investments. Net investment gains of $219 million were recognized in 2012 compared with net investment gains of $239 million in 2011. The gains in 2012 and 2011 primarily included mark-to-market gains on principal investments in real estate funds and net gains from investments associated with the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

Other. Other revenues of $203 million were recognized in 2012 compared with other losses of $236 million in 2011. The results in 2012 included income of $152 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS. The results in 2011 included pre-tax losses of $783 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). The gains in 2012 were partially offset by increases in the provision for loan losses. The results in both periods also included gains from the Company’s retirement of certain of its debt.  

    71      

Table of Contents 

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 3% in 2012. The decrease was due to lower compensation expenses, partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 8% in 2012, in part due to lower net revenues, excluding DVA and the comprehensive settlement with MBIA, and were partially offset by severance expenses related to reductions in force during the year. Non-compensation expenses increased 3% in 2012, compared with 2011. Brokerage, clearing and exchange expenses decreased 9% in 2012, primarily due to lower volumes of activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 6% in 2012, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Professional services expenses increased 21% in 2012, primarily due to higher legal and regulatory costs and consulting expenses. Other expenses increased 4% in 2012. The results in 2012 included increased litigation expense and a higher provision for unfunded loan commitments. The results in 2011 included the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Huaxin Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also included a charge of $59 million due to the bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups” at December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K. government in July 2011.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2013, the Company recognized in income from continuing operations an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $407 million attributable to the Institutional Securities business segment. This included discrete tax benefits of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with new information regarding the status of certain tax authority examinations; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million that is attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the retroactive effective date of the Relief Act.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in income from continuing operations a net tax benefit of $249 million attributable to the Institutional Securities business segment. This included a discrete tax benefit of $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations and an out-of-period net tax provision of $50 million, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively, and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Discontinued Operations.  

For a discussion about discontinued operations, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.   

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests primarily relate to MUFG’s interest in MSMS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein).  

Sale of Global Oil Merchanting Business.  

On December 20, 2013, the Company and a subsidiary of Rosneft Oil Company (“Rosneft”) entered into a Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Company will sell the global oil merchanting unit of its commodities division to Rosneft. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions and is expected to close in the second half of 2014. At December 31, 2013, the transaction does not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

72  

Table of Contents 

WEALTH MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior-period amounts have been recast to reflect the transfer of the International Wealth Management business from the Wealth Management business segment to the Institutional Securities business segment.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Net Revenues. The Wealth Management business segment’s net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues. Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Trading, and Commissions and fees. Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees, and referral fees related to the bank deposit program. Net interest revenues include net interest revenues related to the bank deposit program, interest on securities available for sale and all other net interest revenues. Other revenues include revenues from available for sale securities, customer account services fees, other miscellaneous revenues and revenues from Investments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior-period amounts have been recast to reflect the transfer of the International Wealth Management business from the Wealth Management business segment to the Institutional Securities business segment.  

Wealth Management JV. On June 28, 2013, the Company completed the purchase of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV for $4.725 billion. As the 100% owner of the Wealth Management JV, the Company retains all of the related net income previously applicable to the noncontrolling interests in the Wealth Management JV, and benefit from the termination of certain related debt and operating agreements with the Wealth Management JV partner.  

Concurrent with the acquisition of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV, the deposit sweep agreement between Citi and the Company was terminated. In 2013, $26 billion of deposits held by Citi relating to customer accounts were transferred to the Company’s depository institutions. At December 31, 2013, approximately $30 billion of additional deposits are scheduled to be transferred to the Company’s depository institutions on an agreed-upon basis through June 2015.  

For further information, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

2013 compared with 2012.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Wealth Management business segment’s investment banking revenues include revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $923 million in 2013, primarily due to higher levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds and unit trusts.  

Trading. Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions, which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Trading revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $1,161 million in 2013, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from fixed income products.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commissions and fees revenues increased 6% from 2012 to $2,209 million in 2013, primarily due to higher equity, mutual fund and alternatives activity.  

74  

Table of Contents 

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 6% from 2012 to $7,638 million in 2013, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi-affiliated depository institutions declined to $240 million in 2013 from $383 million in 2012. Lower revenues from the bank deposit program and the decrease in referral fees are both due to the ongoing transfer of deposits to the Company from Citi.  

Balances in the bank deposit program increased to $134 billion at December 31, 2013 from $131 billion at December 31, 2012, which includes deposits held by Company-affiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions of $104 billion at December 31, 2013 and $72 billion at December 31, 2012. As a result of the Company’s 100% ownership of the Wealth Management JV, the deposits held in non-affiliated depositories will transfer to the Company-affiliated depositories on an agreed-upon basis through June 2015.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $697 billion and represented 37% of total client assets at December 31, 2013 compared with $554 billion and 33% at December 31, 2012, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,909 billion at December 31, 2013 from $1,696 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and higher fee-based client asset flows. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,454 billion at December 31, 2013 from $1,237 billion at December 31, 2012. Effective from the quarter ended March 31, 2013, client assets also include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the Wealth Management JV platform conversion. Fee-based client asset flows for 2013 were $51.9 billion compared with $26.9 billion in 2012.  

Beginning January 1, 2013, the Company enhanced its definition of fee-based asset flows. Fee-based asset flows have been recast for all periods to include dividends, interest and client fees and to exclude cash management related activity.  

Net Interest.  

Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities. Net interest is driven by securities-based lending, mortgage lending, margin loans, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions and bank deposit program activity.  

Net interest increased 20% to $1,880 million in 2013 from 2012, primarily due to higher balances in the bank deposit program and growth in loans and lending commitments in PLA securities-based lending products. In addition, interest expense declined in 2013 due to the Company’s redemption of all the Class A Preferred Interests owned by Citi and its affiliates, in connection with the Company’s acquisition of 100% ownership of the Wealth Management JV effective at the end of the second quarter of 2013. The loans and lending commitments in the Company’s Wealth Management business segment have grown in 2013, and the Company expects this trend to continue. See “Business Segments—Lending Activities” herein and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Item 7A.  

Other.  

Other revenues were $389 million in 2013, an increase of 26% from 2012, primarily due to a gain on sale of the global stock plan business and realized gains on securities available for sale.  

Non-interest Expenses.   

Non-interest expenses increased 2% in 2013 from 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% in 2013 from 2012, primarily due to higher compensable revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 8% in 2013 from 2012, primarily driven by the absence of platform integration costs and non-recurring technology  

    75      

Table of Contents 

 write-offs, partially offset by an impairment expense of $36 million related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investment funds in 2013 (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues increased 13% to $835 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher revenues from closed-end funds and higher fixed income underwriting.  

Trading. Trading revenues increased 6% to $1,043 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from structured notes and corporate bonds transactions, partially offset by lower revenues from municipal securities, corporate equity securities, government securities and foreign exchange transactions.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues decreased 17% to $2,080 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower client activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% to $7,190 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, and higher revenues from annuities and the bank deposit program held at Citi depositories. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi-affiliated depository institutions were $383 million and $255 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

Balances in the bank deposit program increased to $131 billion at December 31, 2012 from $111 billion at December 31, 2011. Deposits held by Company-affiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions were $72 billion at December 31, 2012 and $56 billion at December 31, 2011.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $554 billion and represented 33% of total client assets at December 31, 2012 compared with $468 billion and 30% at December 31, 2011, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,696 billion at December 31, 2012 from $1,566 billion at December 31, 2011, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and net new asset inflows. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,237 billion at December 31, 2012 from $1,150 billion at December 31, 2011. Global fee-based client asset flows for 2012 were $26.9 billion compared with $47.0 billion in 2011.  

Net Interest.  

Net interest increased 9% to $1,567 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily resulting from higher revenues from the bank deposit program, interest on the available for sale portfolio and secured financing activities.  

Other. Other revenues were $309 million in 2012, a decrease of 24% from 2011, primarily due to lower gains on sales of securities available for sale.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses were flat in 2012 from 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 1% from 2011, primarily due to lower compensable revenues, partially offset by higher expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Non-compensation expenses increased 2% in 2012 from 2011. Information processing and communications expenses increased 7% in 2012, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. Marketing and business development expenses increased 10% from 2011, primarily due to higher costs associated with advertising and infrastructure, partially offset by lower costs associated with conferences and seminars. Other expenses increased 5% in 2012, primarily  

76  

Table of Contents 

 due to non-recurring costs related to Wealth Management JV integration (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Wealth Management JV” herein). Professional services expenses decreased 7% in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower technology consulting costs.  

Discontinued Operations.  

On April 2, 2012, the Company completed the sale of Quilter, its retail wealth management business in the U.K., resulting in a pre-tax gain of $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 in the Wealth Management business segment. The results of Quilter are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

    77      

Table of Contents 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

78  

Table of Contents 

Statistical Data.  

The Investment Management business segment’s period-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

 (2) On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint Partners LLC (“FrontPoint”) completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint, and the Company retains a minority stake. At December 31, 2011, the assets under management attributed to FrontPoint are represented within the share of minority stake assets.  

 (3) Amounts represent the Investment Management business segment’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

    79      

Table of Contents 

Activity in the Investment Management business segment’s assets under management or supervision during 2013, 2012 and 2011 was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Fixed income outflows for 2011 include $1.3 billion due to the revised treatment of assets under management previously reported as a net flow.  

 (2) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

 (3) The amount in 2011 includes two months of net flows related to FrontPoint.  

2013 Compared with 2012.  

Investment Banking. The Investment Management business segment generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking funds.  

Trading. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Trading revenues.  

The Company recognized gains of $41 million in 2013 compared with losses of $45 million in 2012. Trading results in 2013 primarily reflected gains related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Trading results in 2012 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company, as well as losses on hedges on certain investments.  

Investments. Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

The Company recorded net investment gains of $1,056 million in 2013 compared with gains of $513 million in 2012. The increase in 2013 was primarily related to higher net investment gains predominantly within the  

80  

Table of Contents 

 Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and higher gains on certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Results in 2013 also included the benefit of carried interest.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. “See Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 9% to $1,853 million in 2013. The increase primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues, primarily due to higher average assets under management, as well as higher performance fees.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $35 billion from $338 billion at December 31, 2012 to $373 billion at December 31, 2013, reflecting market appreciation and positive net flows. The Company recorded $22 billion in market appreciation and net inflows of $13 billion in 2013, primarily reflecting net customer inflows in liquidity funds. In 2012, the Company recorded $26 billion in market appreciation and $25 billion in net customer inflows primarily in liquidity funds.  

Other. Other revenues were $33 million in 2013 as compared with $55 million in 2012. The results in 2013 included higher revenues associated with the Company’s minority investment in Avenue Capital Group, a New York-based investment manager, partially offset by lower revenues associated with the Company’s minority investment in Lansdowne Partners, a London-based investment manager. The results in 2012 included gains associated with the expiration of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses were $2,004 million in 2013 as compared with $1,629 million in 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 41% in 2013, primarily due to higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses increased 4% in 2013, primarily due to higher brokerage and clearing and professional services expenses, partially offset by lower information processing expenses.  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Trading. In 2012, the Company recognized losses of $45 million compared with losses of $22 million in 2011. Trading results in 2012 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company, as well as losses on hedges on certain investments. Trading results in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Investments. The Company recorded net investment gains of $513 million in 2012 compared with gains of $330 million in 2011. The increase in 2012 was primarily related to higher net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking business, as well as higher net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% to $1,703 million in 2012. The increase in 2012 primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues and higher performance fees.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $51 billion from $287 billion at December 31, 2011 to $338 billion at December 31, 2012, reflecting $26 billion in market appreciation and net customer inflows of $25 billion primarily in liquidity funds. In 2011, net inflows of $26 billion primarily reflected the sweep of the Wealth Management JV client cash balances of approximately $19 billion into Morgan Stanley managed liquidity funds and inflows of $8 billion into alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows of $6 billion in fixed income products.  

81  

Table of Contents 

Other. Other revenues were $55 million in 2012 as compared with $25 million in 2011. The results in 2012 included gains associated with the expiration of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company. The results in 2012 also included lower revenues associated with the Company’s minority investments in Avenue Capital Group and Lansdowne Partners. The results in 2011 were partially offset by a $27 million writedown in the Company’s minority investment in FrontPoint.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses were $1,629 million in 2012 as compared with $1,634 million in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 1% in 2012. Non-compensation expenses were relatively unchanged in 2012 compared with 2011.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in income from continuing operations an out-of-period net tax provision of $107 million, attributable to the Investment Management business segment, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Discontinued Operations.  

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company classified a real estate property management company as held for sale within the Investment Management business segment. The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2012. The results of this company are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

For further information on discontinued operations, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.   

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Investment gains associated with these consolidated funds were $151 million, $225 million and $180 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Accounting Developments.  

Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure.  

In January 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued an accounting update clarifying when an in-substance repossession or foreclosure occurs; that is, when a creditor should be considered to have received physical possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a consumer mortgage loan such that the loan receivable should be derecognized and the real estate property recognized. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2015. This guidance can be applied using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects.  

In January 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update providing guidance on accounting for investments by a reporting entity in flow-through limited liability entities that manage or invest in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. The amendments permit reporting entities to make an accounting policy election to account for their investments in qualified affordable housing projects using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met. Under the proportional amortization method, an entity amortizes the initial cost of the investment in proportion to the tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognizes the net investment performance in the income statement as a component of income tax expense (benefit). This guidance is effective for the Company retrospectively beginning January 1, 2015. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this accounting update.  

Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists.  

In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update providing guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or tax credit carryforward exists. This guidance requires an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, to be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward if such settlement is required or expected in the event the uncertain tax position is disallowed. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2014. This guidance is expected to be applied prospectively to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective date. The adoption of this accounting guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Amendments to the Scope, Measurement, and Disclosure Requirements of an Investment Company.  

In June 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update that modifies the criteria used in defining an investment company under GAAP and sets forth certain measurement and disclosure requirements. This update requires an investment company to measure noncontrolling interests in another investment company at fair value and requires an entity to disclose the fact that it is an investment company, and provide information about changes, if any, in its status as an investment company. An entity will also need to include disclosures around financial support that has been provided or is contractually required to be provided to any of its investees. This guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning January 1, 2014. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Parent’s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity.  

In March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update requiring the parent entity to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income when the parent ceases to have a controlling financial interest  

83  

Table of Contents 

 in a subsidiary that is a foreign entity. When the parent ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a business within a foreign entity, the related cumulative translation adjustment would be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. This guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning on January 1, 2014. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements for Which the Total Amount of the Obligation Is Fixed at the Reporting Date.  

In February 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update that requires an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date, as the sum of the amount the reporting entity agreed to pay and any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. This update also requires additional disclosures about those obligations. This guidance is effective for the Company retrospectively beginning on January 1, 2014. The adoption of this accounting guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

84  

Table of Contents 

Other Matters.  

Legal Matters.  

On February 4, 2014, and subsequent to the release of the Company’s 2013 earnings on January 17, 2014, legal reserves were increased, which increased Other expenses within the Institutional Securities business segment in the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2013 by $150 million related to the settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency (see “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). This decreased diluted EPS and diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.05 in the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2013.  

Real Estate.  

The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner. The Company’s real estate investments at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are described below. Such amounts exclude investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.2 billion, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.8 billion in both periods, for a net amount of $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. This net presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure for the Company and investors to use in assessing the Company’s net exposure. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.3 billion at December 31, 2013.  

In addition to the Company’s real estate investments, the Company engages in various real estate-related activities, including origination of loans secured by commercial and residential properties. The Company also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate. In connection with these activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related activities in order to manage its exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture.  

The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS, while the Company holds a 51% voting interest and MUFG holds a 49% voting interest in MSMS. The Company consolidates MSMS in its consolidated financial statements and accounts for its interest in MUMSS as an equity method investment within the Institutional Securities business segment (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). During 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded income (loss) of $570 million, $152 million and $(783) million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

In order to enhance the risk management at MUMSS, during 2011, the Company entered into a transaction with MUMSS whereby the risk associated with the fixed income trading positions that previously caused the majority of the aforementioned MUMSS losses in 2011 was transferred to MSMS. In return for entering into the transaction, the Company received total consideration of $659 million, which represented the estimated fair value of the fixed income trading positions transferred.  

To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level, whereas the Company is not obligated to  

    85      

Table of Contents 

 contribute additional capital to MUMSS. To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above.  

In June 2013, MUMSS paid a dividend of approximately $287 million, of which the Company received approximately $115 million for its proportionate share of MUMSS.  

See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Expense. The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”) ceased future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. Net periodic pension expense for U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $97 million, $99 million and $72 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $42 million, $42 million and $57 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). At December 31, 2013, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the U.S. Qualified Plan. No contributions were made to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2013, 2012 and 2011.  

See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.  

Income Tax Matters.  

The income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside the United States has been excluded from taxation in the U.S. as a result of a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income until such income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision, which expired for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014, had previously been extended by Congress on several occasions, including the most recent extension that occurred on January 2, 2013, as part of the Relief Act. If this provision is not extended, the overall financial impact to the Company would depend upon the level, composition and geographic mix of future earnings but could increase the Company’s 2014 annual effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on the Company’s net income, but not its cash flows due to utilization of tax attributes carryforwards.  

86  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Outlook.  

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately, most other portions are effective following transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, and although a large number of rules have been proposed, many are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. U.S. regulators also plan to propose additional regulations to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, it remains difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various international developments, such as the adoption of or further revisions to risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee, including Basel III, and the implementation of those standards in jurisdictions in which the Company operates, will continue to impact the Company in the coming years.  

At the end of 2013, the U.S. regulators adopted the final Volcker Rule regulations. Banking entities, including the Company, generally have until July 21, 2015 to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule, subject to possible extensions. The Company is continuing its review of activities that may be affected by the Volcker Rule, including its trading operations and asset management activities, and is taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the Volcker Rule. Given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain, and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.  

It is likely that 2014 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. See also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1. 

    87      

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include, but are not limited to:  

   •    Trading assets and Trading liabilities;  

   •    Securities available for sale;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;  

   •    Certain Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. At December 31, 2013, certain of the Company’s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, and intangible assets. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.  

88  

Table of Contents 

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable.  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s valuation policies, processes and procedures.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets.  

Goodwill. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. For both the annual and interim tests, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair value of the reporting units is derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair value is generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate price-to-book and price-to-earnings multiples of certain comparable companies. At each annual goodwill impairment testing date, each of the Company’s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess of its carrying value.  

Intangible Assets. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.  

For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

See Notes 4 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.  

89  

Table of Contents 

Legal and Regulatory Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.  

Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the Company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal proceedings and investigations, the Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings and investigations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation.  

Significant judgment is required in deciding when and if to make these accruals and the actual cost of a legal claim or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.  

Income Taxes.  

The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.  

The Company’s provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Current income taxes approximate taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. The Company’s deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the applicable enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are  

90  

Table of Contents 

 expected to reverse. The Company’s deferred tax balances also include deferred assets related to tax attributes carryforwards, such as net operating losses and tax credits that will be realized through reduction of future tax liabilities and, in some cases, are subject to expiration if not utilized within certain periods. The Company performs regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management’s estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income and incorporate various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize net operating losses before they expire. Once the deferred tax asset balances have been determined, the Company may record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset balances to reflect the amount of these balances (net of valuation allowance) that the Company estimates it is more likely than not to realize at a future date. Both current and deferred income taxes could reflect adjustments related to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits.  

Significant judgment is required in estimating the consolidated provision for (benefit from) income taxes, current and deferred tax balances (including valuation allowance, if any), accrued interest or penalties and uncertain tax positions. Revisions in our estimates and/or the actual costs of a tax assessment may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any.  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on the Company’s significant assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on the Company’s tax examinations.  

    91      

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes liquidity and capital policies. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee and other control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board’s Risk Committee.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet on a regular basis. The Company’s balance sheet management process includes quarterly planning, business specific limits, monitoring of business specific usage versus limits, key metrics and new business impact assessments.  

The Company establishes balance sheet limits at the consolidated, business segment and business unit levels. The Company monitors balance sheet usage versus limits, and variances resulting from business activity or market fluctuations are reviewed. On a regular basis, the Company reviews current performance versus limits and assesses the need to re-allocate limits based on business unit needs. The Company also monitors key metrics, including asset and liability size, composition of the balance sheet, limit utilization and capital usage.  

The tables below summarize total assets for the Company’s business segments at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

92  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks.  

 (2) Certain of these assets are included in secured financing assets (see “Secured Financing” herein).  

 (3) Other assets include Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets; and Other assets.  

 (4) Total assets include Global Liquidity Reserves of $202 billion and $182 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. The Global Liquidity Reserve at December 31, 2013 was higher than the preceding year, primarily due to approximately $26 billion of deposits relating to customer accounts that were transferred to the Company’s depository institutions from Citi during 2013 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (5) On January 1, 2013, the International Wealth Management business was transferred from the Wealth Management business segment to the Equity division within the Institutional Securities business segment. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been recast to reflect the International Wealth Management business as part of the Institutional Securities business segment.  

A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Institutional Securities business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company’s total assets increased to $832,702 million at December 31, 2013 from $780,960 million at December 31, 2012. The increase in total assets was primarily due to an increase in Cash and cash equivalents, Securities available for sale and loans, net of allowances (see Notes 3 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

The Company’s assets and liabilities are primarily related to transactions attributable to sales and trading and securities financing activities. At December 31, 2013, securities financing assets and liabilities were $352 billion and $353 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2012, securities financing assets and liabilities were $348 billion and $300 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, and customer and other receivables and payables. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned were $178 billion at December 31, 2013 and averaged $176 billion during 2013. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed were $248 billion at December 31, 2013 and averaged $281 billion during 2013. The Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed period-end balance was lower than the average balances during the year ended December 31, 2013 due to a reduction in the Company’s requirements for collateral over the period.  

    93      

Table of Contents 

Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer-owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in accordance with regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage customers. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets were $21 billion and $14 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

Liquidity Risk Management Framework.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of the Company’s business strategies.  

The following principles guide the Company’s liquidity risk management framework:  

   •    Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities and other planned and contingent outflows;  

   •    Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;  

   •    Source, counterparty, currency, region, and term of funding should be diversified; and  

   •    Limited access to funding should be anticipated through the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”).  

The core components of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework are the CFP, Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve (as defined below), which support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

Contingency Funding Plan.  

The Company’s CFP describes the data and information flows, limits, targets, operating environment indicators, escalation procedures, roles and responsibilities, and available mitigating actions in the event of a liquidity stress. The CFP also sets forth the principal elements of the Company’s liquidity stress testing which identifies stress events of different severity and duration, assesses current funding sources and uses and establishes a plan for monitoring and managing a potential liquidity stress event.  

Liquidity Stress Tests.  

The Company uses liquidity stress tests to model liquidity outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events.  

The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    No government support;  

   •    No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;  

   •    Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within the stress horizon;  

   •    Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties, certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to credit rating downgrades;  

94  

Table of Contents 

   •    Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;  

   •    Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;  

   •    Drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties;  

   •    Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;  

   •    Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets;  

   •    Return of securities borrowed on an uncollateralized basis; and  

   •    Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.  

The Liquidity Stress Tests are produced for the Parent and major operating subsidiaries, as well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent. The Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints.  

At December 31, 2013, the Company maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Global Liquidity Reserve.  

The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves (“Global Liquidity Reserve”) to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. The size of the Global Liquidity Reserve is actively managed by the Company. The following components are considered in sizing the Global Liquidity Reserve: unsecured debt maturity profile, balance sheet size and composition, funding needs in a stressed environment inclusive of contingent cash outflows and collateral requirements. In addition, the Global Liquidity Reserve includes an additional reserve, which is primarily a discretionary surplus based on the Company’s risk tolerance and is subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events.  

The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent and major operating subsidiaries. The Global Liquidity Reserve is composed of diversified cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid unencumbered securities. Eligible unencumbered securities include U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, non-U.S. government securities and other highly liquid investment grade securities.  

Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve by type of investment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Non-U.S. sovereign obligations are composed of unencumbered German, French, Dutch, U.K., Brazilian and Japanese government obligations.  

    95      

Table of Contents 

The ability to monetize assets during a liquidity crisis is critical. The Company believes that the assets held in the Global Liquidity Reserve can be monetized within five business days in a stressed environment given the highly liquid and diversified nature of the reserves. The currency profile of the Global Liquidity Reserve is consistent with the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Company has other cash and cash equivalents and other unencumbered assets that are available for monetization that are not included in the balances in the table above.  

Global Liquidity Reserve Held by Bank and Non-Bank Legal Entities.  

The table below summarizes the Global Liquidity Reserve held by bank and non-bank legal entities:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.  

 (2) The Parent held $58 billion at December 31, 2013, which averaged $63 billion during 2013.  

The Company is exposed to intra-day settlement risk in connection with liquidity provided to its major broker-dealer subsidiaries for intra-day clearing and settlement of its securities and financing activity.  

Basel Liquidity Framework.  

The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision: the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”).  

The LCR was developed to ensure banks have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net cash outflows arising from significant stress over 30 calendar days. This standard’s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks and bank holding companies. The Company is compliant with the Basel Committee’s version of the LCR, which stipulates that the ratio of the Company’s portfolio of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows over a 30-day standardized supervisory liquidity stress scenario must be at least 100%.  

The NSFR has a time horizon of one year and is defined as the ratio of the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. This standard’s objective is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon. In January 2014, the Basel Committee proposed revisions to the original December 2010 version of the NSFR and continues to contemplate the introduction of the NSFR, including any final revisions, as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018.  

In late October 2013, the U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule to implement the LCR in the United States (“U.S. LCR proposal”). The U.S. LCR proposal would apply to the Company and MSBNA and MSPBNA (the “Subsidiary Banks”). The U.S. LCR proposal is more stringent in certain respects compared with the Basel Committee’s version of the LCR, and includes a generally narrower definition of high-quality liquid assets, a  

96  

Table of Contents 

 different methodology for calculating net cash outflows during the 30-day stress period as well as a shorter, two-year phase-in period that ends on December 31, 2016. The Company continues to evaluate the U.S. LCR proposal and its potential impact on the Company’s current liquidity and funding requirements. 

Funding Management.  

The Company manages its funding in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.  

Secured Financing. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and arises principally from its Institutional Securities business segment’s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in funding these assets with secured financing. The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of durable secured and unsecured financing. Secured financing investors principally focus on the quality of the eligible collateral posted. Accordingly, the Company actively manages its secured financing book based on the quality of the assets being funded. 

The Company utilizes shorter-term secured financing only for highly liquid assets and has established longer tenor limits for less liquid asset classes, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption. The Company defines highly liquid assets as those that are consistent with the standards of the Global Liquidity Reserve, and less liquid assets as those that do not meet these standards. At December 31, 2013, the weighted average maturity of the Company’s secured financing against less liquid assets was greater than 120 days. To further minimize the refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets, the Company has established concentration limits to diversify its investor base and reduce the amount of monthly maturities for secured financing of less liquid assets. Furthermore, the Company obtains spare capacity, or term secured funding liabilities in excess of less liquid inventory, as an additional risk mitigant to replace maturing trades in the event that secured financing markets or our ability to access them become limited. Finally, in addition to the above risk management framework, the Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity Reserve against the potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities.  

Unsecured Financing. The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding. Unencumbered securities and non-security assets are financed with a combination of long- and short-term debt and deposits. The Company’s unsecured financings include structured borrowings, whose payments and redemption values are based on the performance of certain underlying assets, including equity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities. When appropriate, the Company may use derivative products to conduct asset and liability management and to make adjustments to the Company’s interest rate and structured borrowings risk profile (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Short-Term Borrowings. The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.  

    97      

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Deposits. The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ funding sources include time deposits, money market deposit accounts, demand deposit accounts, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in the Subsidiary Banks are sourced from the Company’s retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low-cost funding characteristics. Concurrent with the acquisition of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV, the deposit sweep agreement between Citi and the Company was terminated. In 2013, $26 billion of deposits held by Citi relating to customer accounts were transferred to the Company’s depository institutions. At December 31, 2013, approximately $30 billion of additional deposits are scheduled to be transferred to the Company’s depository institutions on an agreed-upon basis through June 2015 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). 

Deposits were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total deposits subject to FDIC insurance at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 were $84 billion and $62 billion, respectively.  

 (2) There were no non-interest bearing deposits at December 31, 2013. Amounts include non-interest bearing deposits of $1,037 million at December 31, 2012.  

 (3) Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Senior Indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, the aggregate outstanding carrying amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness was approximately $143 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $158 billion at December 31, 2012. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to repayments of notes, offset by new issuances of long-term borrowings.  

Long-Term Borrowings. The Company believes that accessing debt investors through multiple distribution channels helps provide consistent access to the unsecured markets. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Long-term borrowings are generally managed to achieve staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients across regions, currencies and product types. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.  

The Company may engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.  

98  

Table of Contents 

Long-term borrowings at December 31, 2013 consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-Term Borrowing Activity in 2013. During 2013, the Company issued and reissued notes with a principal amount of approximately $28 billion. This amount included the Company’s issuance of $2.0 billion in subordinated debt on November 22, 2013, $2.0 billion in subordinated debt on May 21, 2013, $3.7 billion in senior unsecured debt on April 25, 2013 and $4.5 billion in senior unsecured debt on February 25, 2013. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.4 years at December 31, 2013. During 2013, approximately $39 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or were retired. Subsequent to December 31, 2013 and through February 10, 2014, the Company’s long-term borrowings (net of issuances) decreased by approximately $2.2 billion. This amount includes the Company’s issuance of $2.8 billion in senior debt on January 24, 2014.  

Credit Ratings.  

The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally is impacted by the Company’s credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings can have an impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Rating agencies will look at company specific factors; other industry factors such as regulatory or legislative changes; the macro-economic environment and perceived levels of government support, among other things.  

Some rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of credit rating uplift from external sources of potential support, as well as perceived government support of systemically important banks, including the credit ratings of the Company. Rating agencies continue to monitor the progress of U.S. financial reform legislation to assess whether the possibility of extraordinary government support for the financial system in any future financial crises is negatively impacted. Legislative and rulemaking outcomes may lead to reduced uplift assumptions for U.S. banks and thereby place downward pressure on credit ratings. For example, in November 2013, Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) took certain ratings actions with respect to eight large U.S. banking groups, including downgrading the Company, to remove certain uplift from the U.S. government support in their ratings. At the same time, proposed and final U.S. financial reform legislation and attendant rulemaking also have positive implications for credit ratings such as higher standards for capital and liquidity levels. The net result on credit ratings and the timing of any change in rating agency views on changes in government support and other financial reform is currently uncertain.  

    99      

Table of Contents 

At January 31, 2014, the Parent’s and MSBNA’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On August 22, 2013, Moody’s placed the senior and subordinated debt ratings of the holding companies for the six largest U.S. banks on review as it continued to consider reducing its government (or systemic) support assumptions to reflect the impact of U.S. bank resolution policies. As part of this review, Moody’s placed the Company’s “Baa1” long-term senior, “Baa2” long-term subordinated and “P-2” short-term on review for downgrade. On November 14, 2013, Moody’s downgraded the Company’s long-term debt rating one-notch from “Baa1” to “Baa2” and left the short-term rating unchanged at “P-2”. A stable outlook was assigned to the Parent’s rating outlook.  

 (2) On June 11, 2013, Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC (“S&P”) announced that it continues to assess the degree to which it factors extraordinary government support into its ratings on non-operating bank holding companies and was factoring that assessment into the negative outlooks on the non-operating bank holding companies of the eight U.S. bank groups that S&P classifies as having high systematic importance. S&P’s negative outlook for the Company’s issuer credit ratings reflects not only S&P’s continued assessment of extraordinary government support, but also the impact that recently finalized regulations, particularly the Volcker Rule, could have on the Company’s business.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements where the Company is a liquidity provider to certain financing vehicles associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties or pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a future credit rating downgrade irrespective of whether the Company is in a net asset or liability position. 

The additional collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody’s and S&P. At December 31, 2013, the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers were $1,522 million and an incremental $3,321 million, respectively.  

While certain aspects of a credit rating downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions, the impact it will have on the Company’s business and results of operation in future periods is inherently uncertain and will depend on a number of interrelated factors, including, among others, the magnitude of the downgrade, individual client behavior and future mitigating actions the Company may take. The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is included in the Company’s Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Capital Management.  

The Company’s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity.  

At December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $1.2 billion remaining under its current share repurchase program out of the $6 billion authorized by the Board of Directors in December 2006. The share  

100  

Table of Contents 

 repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval.  

In July 2013, the Company received no objection from the Federal Reserve to repurchase through March 31, 2014, up to $500 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock under rules relating to annual capital distributions (Title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Section 225.8, Capital Planning). Share repurchases are made pursuant to the share repurchase program previously authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors and are exercised from time to time at prices the Company deems appropriate subject to various factors, including the Company’s capital position and market conditions. The share repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, and may be suspended at any time (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Item 5). During 2013, the Company repurchased approximately $350 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program.  

Series E Preferred Stock. On September 30, 2013, the Company issued 34,500,000 Depositary Shares, for an aggregate price of $862 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of perpetual Series E Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (“Series E Preferred Stock”). The Series E Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after October 15, 2023 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per Depositary Share). The Series E Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. The Series E Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $854 million (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Series F Preferred Stock. On December 10, 2013, the Company issued 34,000,000 Depositary Shares, for an aggregate price of $850 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of perpetual Series F Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (“Series F Preferred Stock”). The Series F Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after January 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per Depositary Share). The Series F Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. The Series F Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $842 million (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In January 2014, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. In December 2013, the Company also announced that the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.25556), a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, a quarterly dividend of $519.53 per share of Series E Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and the initial quarterly dividend of $167.10 per share of Series F Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.  

    101      

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth the Company’s tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 and average balances during 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates its average balances based upon month-end balances.  

 (2) The goodwill and net intangible assets deduction exclude mortgage servicing rights (net of disallowable mortgage servicing rights) of $7 million and $6 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, and include only the Company’s share of the Wealth Management JV’s goodwill and intangible assets at each respective period (100% at December 31, 2013 and 65% at December 31, 2012) (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). The increase in goodwill and net intangible assets at December 31, 2013 from December 31, 2012 is primarily due to the purchase of the remaining 35% interest in the Wealth Management JV.  

 (3) Tangible common equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals common equity less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible common equity as a useful measure to investors because it is a commonly utilized metric and reflects the common equity deployed in the Company’s businesses.  

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”), which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

Regulatory Requirements.  

Capital.  

The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Subsidiary Banks.  

As of December 31, 2013, the Company calculated its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance with the existing capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These existing capital standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active U.S. banking organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement  

102  

Table of Contents 

 Basel II standards over the next several years. On January 1, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators’ rules to implement the Basel Committee’s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as “Basel 2.5”, became effective, which increased the capital requirements for securitizations and correlation trading within the Company’s trading book, as well as incorporated add-ons for stressed VaR and incremental risk requirements (“market risk capital framework amendment”). The Company’s Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios and RWAs subsequent to the Basel 2.5 effective date were calculated under this revised framework. The Company’s Total, Tier 1 and Tier 1 common capital ratios and RWAs prior to the Basel 2.5 effective date have not been recalculated under the revised framework. RWAs reflect both on- and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations.  

Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market risks and models such as the VaR model, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A.  

Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Item 7A.  

Existing Regulatory Capital Framework.  

Under the Federal Reserve’s existing regulatory capital framework, total allowable capital is composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes Tier 1 common capital, and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 common capital is defined as Tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements (qualifying trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests). Tier 1 capital consists predominantly of common shareholders’ equity as well as qualifying preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year), an after-tax debt valuation adjustment and certain other deductions, including equity investments. The debt valuation adjustment in the table below represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain long-term and short-term borrowings that was attributable to the Company’s own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

At December 31, 2013, the Company’s capital levels calculated under Basel I, inclusive of the market risk capital framework amendment, were in excess of well-capitalized levels with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 15.7% and total capital to RWAs of 16.9% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). The Company’s ratio of Tier 1 common capital to RWAs was 12.8% (5% under stressed conditions is the current minimum Tier 1 common ratio under the Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework). Financial holding companies, including the Company, are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio defined by the Federal Reserve. Consistent with the Federal Reserve’s definition, the Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and financial and non-financial equity investments). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the period. At December 31, 2013, the Company was in compliance with the Federal Reserve’s Tier 1 leverage requirement with a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 7.6% (5% is the current well-capitalized standard for regulatory purposes).  

    103      

Table of Contents 

The following table reconciles the Company’s total shareholders’ equity to Tier 1 common, Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total allowable capital as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and presents the Company’s consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Effective January 1, 2013, in accordance with the U.S. banking regulators’ rules the Company implemented the Basel Committee’s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as “Basel 2.5”, which increased the capital requirement for securitizations and correlation trading within the Company’s trading book as well as incorporated add-ons for stressed VaR and incremental risk requirements. Under the market risk capital framework amendment, total RWAs would have been approximately $424 billion at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, the capital ratios would have been approximately as follows: Total capital ratio 13.4%, Tier 1 common capital ratio 10.6% and Tier 1 capital ratio 12.8%.  

Capital Plans and Stress Tests. In November 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule regarding capital plans. The final rule requires large bank holding companies such as the Company to submit annual capital plans in order for the Federal Reserve to assess their systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain their internal capital adequacy. The rule also requires that such companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before undertaking a capital action.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes stress test requirements on large bank holding companies, including the Company. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued its stress test final rule under the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. The rule also subjects the Company to an  

104  

Table of Contents 

 annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The capital planning and stress testing requirements for large bank holding companies form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual CCAR process.  

The Company submitted its 2013 annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve in January 2013. In March 2013, the Federal Reserve published a summary of the supervisory stress test results of each company subject to the final rule, including the Company. The Company received no objection to its 2013 capital plan, including the acquisition of the remaining 35% interest in the Wealth Management JV, which was completed on June 28, 2013.  

In September 2013, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule specifying how large bank holding companies, including the Company, should incorporate the U.S. Basel III capital standards into their 2014 capital plans and 2014 Dodd-Frank Act stress test results. Among other things, the interim final rule requires large bank holding companies to project both Tier 1 Common capital ratio using the methodology currently in effect under existing capital guidelines and Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under the U.S. Basel III capital standards after giving effect to phase-in provisions.  

As part of the 2014 CCAR process, eight bank holding companies, including the Company, are required to factor in its stress test scenarios the default of its largest counterparty across its derivatives and securities financing transactions. The Company expects that by March 31, 2014, the Federal Reserve will either object or provide notice of non-objection to the Company’s 2014 capital plan that was submitted to the Federal Reserve on January 6, 2014.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires a national bank with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct an annual company-run stress test. Beginning in 2012, the OCC’s implementing regulation requires national banks with $50 billion or more in average total consolidated assets, including MSBNA, to conduct its Dodd-Frank Act stress test. MSBNA submitted its company-run stress test results to the OCC and the Federal Reserve on January 6, 2014. The OCC’s regulation also requires a national bank with more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion in average total consolidated assets, including MSPBNA, to submit the results of its Dodd-Frank Act stress test by March 31, 2014. However, MSPBNA was given an exemption by the OCC for the 2014 Dodd-Frank Act stress test.  

Basel Capital Framework.   

In December 2010, the Basel Committee reached an agreement on Basel III. In July 2013, the U.S. banking regulators promulgated final rules to implement many aspects of Basel III (the “U.S. Basel III final rule”). The Company became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule beginning on January 1, 2014. Certain requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rule, including the minimum risk-based capital ratios and new capital buffers, will commence or be phased in over several years.  

The U.S. Basel III final rule contains new capital standards that raise capital requirements, strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements, introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio and replace the use of externally developed credit ratings with alternatives such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s country risk classifications. Under the U.S. Basel III final rule, the Company is subject, on a fully phased in basis, to a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8%. The Company is also subject to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer on a fully phased-in basis by 2019. Failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the Company’s ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. In addition, certain new items will be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital and certain existing deductions will be modified. The majority of these capital deductions is subject to a phase-in schedule and will be fully phased in by 2018. Under the U.S. Basel III final rule, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities will be reflected in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-in schedule.  

Pursuant to the U.S. Basel III final rule, existing trust preferred securities will be fully phased out of the Company’s Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016. Thereafter, existing trust preferred securities that do not satisfy the  

    105      

Table of Contents 

 U.S. Basel III final rule’s eligibility criteria for Tier 2 capital will be phased out of the Company’s regulatory capital by January 1, 2022.  

U.S. banking regulators have published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring that certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to minimum capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. Currently, this minimum “capital floor” is based on Basel I. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the U.S. Basel III final rule will replace the current Basel I-based “capital floor” with a standardized approach that, among other things, modifies the existing risk weights for certain types of asset classes. The “capital floor” applies to the calculation of minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer and, if deployed, the countercyclical capital buffer. Accordingly, the methods for calculating the Company’s capital ratios will change as the U.S. Basel III final rule’s revisions to the numerator and denominator are phased in and following the Company’s completion of the U.S. Basel III advanced approach parallel run period. These ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the Company’s reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to the Company’s capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile.  

In addition to the U.S. Basel III final rule, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to establish more stringent capital requirements for certain bank holding companies, including the Company. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to address this requirement by implementing the Basel Committee’s capital surcharge for global systemically important banks (“G-SIB”). The Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) has provisionally identified the G-SIBs and assigned each G-SIB a Common Equity Tier 1 capital surcharge ranging from 1.0% to 2.5% of RWAs. The Company is provisionally assigned a G-SIB capital surcharge of 1.5%. The FSB has stated that it intends to update the list of G-SIBs annually.  

The Company estimates its pro forma risk-based Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio under the U.S. Basel III final rule’s advanced approaches method to be approximately 10.5% as of December 31, 2013. This estimate is based on the Company’s current understanding of the U.S. Basel III final rule and other factors, which may be subject to change as the Company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance from regulators relating to the U.S. Basel III final rule, and as the interpretation of the final rule evolves over time. On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC approved the Company’s and the Subsidiary Banks’ respective use of the U.S. Basel III advanced approaches method to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014. One of the stipulations for this approval is that the Company will be required to satisfy certain conditions, as agreed to with the regulators, regarding the modeling used to determine its estimated RWAs associated with operational risk. Pursuant to these conditions, the Company’s estimated operational risk RWAs could increase and thus reduce the pro forma Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio as of December 31, 2013 by an amount up to approximately 50 basis points. The pro forma risk-based Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimate is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. The pro forma risk-based Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimate is based on shareholders’ equity, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, RWAs and certain other data inputs at December 31, 2013. This preliminary estimate is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what the Company’s capital ratios, RWAs, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

The U.S. Basel III final rule also subjects certain banking organizations, including the Company, to a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3% starting on January 1, 2018. In January 2014, the Basel Committee finalized revisions to the denominator of the Basel III leverage ratio. The revised denominator differs from the supplementary leverage ratio in the U.S. Basel III final rule in the treatment of, among other things, derivatives, securities financing transactions and other off-balance sheet items. U.S. banking regulators may issue regulations to implement the revised Basel III leverage ratio.  

106  

Table of Contents 

The U.S. banking regulators have also proposed a rule to implement enhanced supplementary leverage standards for certain large bank holding companies and their insured depository institution subsidiaries, including the Company and the Subsidiary Banks. Under this proposal, a covered bank holding company would need to maintain a leverage buffer of Tier 1 capital of greater than 2% in addition to the 3% minimum (for a total of greater than 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. This proposal would further establish a “well-capitalized” threshold based on a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% for insured depository institution subsidiaries, including the Subsidiary Banks. If this proposal is adopted, its requirements would become effective on January 1, 2018 with public disclosure beginning in 2015. Based on a preliminary analysis of the proposed standards, the Company expects to meet the supplementary leverage ratio of greater than 5% in 2015. As the enhanced supplementary leverage standards are currently proposals, and may change based on final rules issued by the U.S. banking regulators, the Company’s expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect future results of the Company. Further, the expectations should not be taken as a projection of what the Company’s supplemental leverage ratios or earnings or assets will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Required Capital.  

The Company’s required capital (“Required Capital”) estimation is based on the Required Capital Framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based use-of-capital measure, which is compared with the Company’s regulatory capital to ensure the Company maintains an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events where applicable, at a point in time. The Company defines the difference between its regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital as Parent capital. Average Tier 1 common capital, aggregate Required Capital and Parent capital for 2013 were approximately $47.7 billion, $38.7 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.  

Tier 1 common capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the Required Capital Framework. In principle, each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity with limited diversification benefit between the business segments. Required Capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.  

The following table presents the business segments’ and Parent’s average Tier 1 common capital and average common equity for 2013 and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Effective January 2013, the Company updated its Required Capital Framework methodology to coincide with the regulatory changes that became effective in 2013. As a result of this update to the methodology, the majority of which was driven by the implementation of the market risk capital framework amendment, average Institutional Securities capital increased and average Parent capital decreased, partially offset by accretion of net income at December 31, 2013.  

    107      

Table of Contents 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities and Investment Management business segments.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes special purpose entities (“SPE”) primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $2.2 billion and $3.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Investment Management Activities. As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations. These amounts are noted in the table below under “General partner guarantees”.  

Guarantees. The Company discloses information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. Guarantees are defined as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Guarantees are also defined as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

108  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (2) Approximately $2.0 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table below in primary and secondary lending commitments. Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Trading assets or Trading liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition.  

 (3) Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $13.8 million. These guarantees relate to obligations of the fund’s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on other guarantees and indemnities.  

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, and mortgage lending at December 31, 2013 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) This amount includes $49.4 billion of investment grade and $12 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment and $3.5 billion of investment grade and $4.6 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for sale at December 31, 2013. The remainder of these lending commitments is carried at fair value.  

 (2) These commitments are recorded at fair value within Trading assets and Trading liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (3)  The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2013 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency  

    109      

Table of Contents 

     securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days, and of the total amount at December 31, 2013, $42.9 billion settled within three business days.  

 (4) The Company also has a contingent obligation to provide financing to a clearinghouse through which it clears certain transactions. The financing is required only upon the default of a clearinghouse member. The financing takes the form of a reverse repurchase facility, with a maximum amount of approximately $1.1 billion.  

For further description of these commitments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Item 7A.  

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company’s future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at December 31, 2013 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.  

 (2) Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at December 31, 2013. Amounts include stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes.  

 (3) Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Subsidiary Banks.  

 (4) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (5) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2013 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.  

 (6) Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information).  

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

To the extent that a worsening inflation outlook results in rising interest rates or has negative impacts on the valuation of financial instruments that exceed the impact on the value of the Company’s liabilities, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability. Rising inflation may also result in increases in the Company’s non-interest expenses that may not be readily recoverable in higher prices of services offered.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, therefore, can affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

110  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.