PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Fortive Corporation is a diversified industrial growth company encompassing businesses that are recognized leaders in attractive markets. Our well-known brands hold leading positions in advanced instrumentation and solutions, transportation technology, sensing, automation and specialty, and franchise distribution markets. Our businesses design, develop, service, manufacture and market professional and engineered products, software and services for a variety of end markets, building upon leading brand names, innovative technology and significant market positions. Our research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service and administrative facilities are located in more than 50 countries across North America, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America.

We are guided by our shared purpose to deliver essential technology for the people who accelerate progress, and we are united by our culture of continuous improvement and bias for action that embody the Fortive Business System (“FBS”). Through rigorous application of our proprietary FBS set of growth, lean, and leadership tools and processes, we continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of innovation, product development and commercialization, global supply chain, sales and marketing and leadership development. Our commitment to FBS and goal of creating long-term shareholder value have enabled us to drive customer satisfaction and profitability; significant improvements in innovation, growth and operating margins; and disciplined acquisitions to execute strategy and expand our portfolio into new and attractive markets.

Our 2017 sales by geographic destination (geographic destination refers to the geographic area where the final sale to our customer is made) were: North America, 58% (including 55% in the United States); Europe, 19%; Asia Pacific, 19%, and all other regions, 4%. For additional information regarding sales by geography, please refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

Fortive Corporation is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 2015 in connection with the separation of Fortive from Danaher Corporation (“Danaher” or “Former Parent”) on July 2, 2016 as an independent, publicly-traded company, listed on 

2
the New York Stock Exchange (the “Separation”). The Separation was effectuated through a pro-rata dividend distribution on July 2, 2016 of all of the then-outstanding shares of common stock of Fortive Corporation to the holders of common stock of Danaher as of June 15, 2016. In this Annual Report, the terms “Fortive” or the “Company” refer to either Fortive Corporation or to Fortive Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 

Reportable Segments

The table below describes the percentage of sales attributable to each of our two segments over each of the last three years ended December 31, 2017. For additional information regarding sales, operating profit and identifiable assets by segment, please refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Professional Instrumentation

Our Professional Instrumentation segment offers essential products, software and services used to create actionable intelligence by measuring and monitoring a wide range of physical parameters in industrial applications, including electrical current, radio frequency signals, distance, pressure, temperature, radiation, and hazardous gases. Customers for these products and services include industrial service, installation and maintenance professionals, designers and manufacturers of electronic devices and instruments, medical technicians, safety professionals and other customers for whom precision, reliability and safety are critical in their specific applications. 2017 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 50%; Europe, 18%; Asia Pacific, 26%, and all other regions, 6%. 

Our Professional Instrumentation segment consists of our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions and Sensing Technologies businesses. Our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business was primarily established through the acquisitions of Qualitrol in the 1980s, Fluke Corporation in 1998, Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, Tektronix in 2007, Invetech in 2007, Keithley Instruments in 2010, eMaint in 2016, Industrial Scientific in 2017, Landauer in 2017 and numerous bolt-on acquisitions.

Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions

Our Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business consists of: 

Field Solutions Our field solutions products include a variety of compact professional test tools, thermal imaging and calibration equipment for electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications, online condition-based monitoring equipment; portable gas detection equipment, consumables, and software as a service (SaaS) offerings including safety/user behavior, asset management, and compliance monitoring; subscription-based technical, analytical, and compliance services to determine occupational and environmental radiation exposure; and computerized maintenance management software for critical infrastructure in utility, industrial, energy, construction, public safety, mining, and healthcare applications.  These products and associated software solutions measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature, radiation, hazardous gas and air quality, among other parameters. Typical users of these products and software include electrical engineers, electricians, electronic technicians, safety professionals, medical technicians, network technicians, first-responders, and industrial service, installation and maintenance professionals. The business also makes and sells instruments, controls and monitoring and maintenance systems used by maintenance departments in utilities and industrial facilities to monitor assets, including transformers, generators, motors and switchgear. Products are marketed under a variety of brands, including FLUKE, FLUKE BIOMEDICAL, FLUKE NETWORKS, INDUSTRIAL SCIENTIFIC, LANDAUER and QUALITROL.

Product Realization Our product realization services and products help developers and engineers across the end-to-end product creation cycle from concepts to finished products. Our test, measurement and monitoring products are used in the design, manufacturing and development of electronics, industrial, video and other advanced technologies. Typical users of these products and services include research and development engineers who design, de-bug, monitor and validate the function and performance of electronic components, subassemblies and end-products, and video equipment manufacturers, content developers and broadcasters. The business also provides a full range of design, engineering and manufacturing services and highly-engineered, modular components to enable conceptualization, development and launch of products in the medical diagnostics, cell therapy and consumer markets. Finally, the business designs, develops, manufactures and markets critical, highly-engineered energetic materials components in specialized vertical applications. Products and services are marketed 

3
under a variety of brands, including INVETECH, KEITHLEY, PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC ENERGETIC MATERIALS COMPANY, SONIX and TEKTRONIX.

Competition in the Advanced Instrumentation & Solutions business is based on a number of factors, including the reliability, performance, ruggedness, ease of use, ergonomics and aesthetics of the product, the service provider’s relevant expertise with particular technologies and applications, as well as the other factors described under “-Competition.” Sales in the segment are generally made through independent distributors and direct sales personnel.

Sensing Technologies

Our Sensing Technologies business offers devices that sense, monitor and control operational or manufacturing variables, such as temperature, pressure, level, flow, turbidity and conductivity. Users of these products span a wide variety of industrial and manufacturing markets, including medical equipment, food and beverage, marine, industrial, off-highway vehicles, building automation and semiconductors. Our competitive advantage in these markets is based on our ability to apply advanced sensing technologies to a variety of customer needs, many of which are in demanding operating environments. Our modular products and agile supply chain enable rapid customization of solutions for unique operational requirements and which meet the lead-time needs of our customers. Competition in the business is based on a number of factors, including technology, application design expertise, lead time, channels of distribution, brand awareness, as well as the other factors described under “-Competition.” Products in this business are marketed under a variety of brands, including ANDERSON-NEGELE, GEMS and SETRA. Sales in the segment are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors.

Manufacturing facilities of our Professional Instrumentation segment are located in North America, Europe and Asia.

Industrial Technologies

Our Industrial Technologies segment offers critical technical equipment, components, software and services for manufacturing, repair and transportation markets worldwide. We offer fueling, environmental, field payment, vehicle tracking and fleet management solutions that are used in retail, commercial, and private fleet applications, as well as precision motion-control and other specialty products and solutions that enable manufacturing and other process industries around the world to operate more effectively and efficiently. Customers for these products and services include retail and commercial fueling operators, fleet owners, industrial machine original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), commercial auto-repair businesses and other industrial customers. 2017 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 63%; Europe, 19%; Asia Pacific, 13%, and all other regions, 5%.

Our Industrial Technologies segment consists of our Transportation Technologies, Automation & Specialty Components and Franchise Distribution businesses. Our Transportation Technologies business originated with the acquisition of Veeder-Root in the 1980s and subsequently expanded through additional acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Gilbarco in 2002, Navman Wireless in 2012, Teletrac in 2013, ANGI Energy Systems in 2014, Global Traffic Technologies in 2016, Orpak Systems in 2017 and numerous bolt-on acquisitions. Our Automation & Specialty Components business was primarily established through the acquisitions of Kollmorgen Corporation in 2000 and Thomson Industries in 2002, as well as numerous other acquisitions. Our Franchise Distribution business was established through the acquisitions of Matco Tools and Hennessy Industries in 1986.

Transportation Technologies

Our Transportation Technologies business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management, and traffic management. This business consists of:

Retail/Commercial Fueling Our retail/commercial petroleum products include environmental monitoring and leak detection systems; vapor recovery equipment; fuel dispenser systems for petroleum and compressed natural gas; point-of-sale and secure and automated electronic payment technologies for retail petroleum stations; submersible turbine pumps; and remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management software as a service (“SaaS”) offerings, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, fleet management software solutions, and inventory planning and supply chain support. Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience stores, and commercial vehicle fleets. Our retail/commercial petroleum products are marketed under a variety of brands, including ANGI, GASBOY, GILBARCO, GILBARCO AUTOTANK, ORPAK and VEEDER-ROOT.

Telematics Our telematics products include vehicle tracking and fleet management hardware and software solutions offered as SaaS that fleet managers use to position and dispatch vehicles, manage fuel consumption and promote vehicle safety, compliance, operating efficiency and productivity. Typical users of these solutions span a variety of industries and include 

4
businesses and other organizations that manage vehicle fleets. Our telematics products are marketed under a variety of brands, including TELETRAC NAVMAN.

Customers in this line of business choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier’s geographic coverage and the other factors described under “-Competition.” Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel.

Automation & Specialty Components

Our Automation & Specialty Components business provides a wide range of electromechanical and electronic motion control products (including standard and custom motors, drives and controls) and mechanical components (such as ball screws, linear bearings, clutches/brakes and linear actuators), as well as supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles. The automation products are sold in various precision motion markets, such as the markets for packaging equipment, medical equipment, metal forming equipment, robotics and food and beverage processing applications. Customers are typically systems integrators who use our products in production and packaging lines and OEMs that integrate our products into their machines and systems. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product performance, the breadth of the supplier’s product offering, the ability to rapidly develop custom solutions for complex customer requirements, the geographic coverage offered by the supplier and the other factors described under “-Competition.” The business is also a leading worldwide supplier of supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling JAKE BRAKE brand engine retarders for class 6 through 8 vehicles and bleeder and exhaust brakes for class 3 through 7 vehicles. Customers are primarily major OEMs of class 3 through class 8 vehicles, and typically choose suppliers based on their technical expertise and total cost of ownership. Products in this business are marketed under a variety of brands, including DYNAPAR, HENGSTLER, JAKE BRAKE, KOLLMORGEN, PORTESCAP and THOMSON. Sales are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors.

Franchise Distribution

Our Franchise Distribution business consists of:

Professional Tools We manufacture and distribute professional tools, toolboxes and automotive diagnostic equipment and software through our network of franchised mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand. Professional mechanics typically select tools based on relevant innovative features and the other factors described under “-Competition.”

Wheel Service Equipment We produce a full-line of wheel service equipment including brake lathes, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under various brands including the COATS brands. Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops. Sales are generally made through direct sales personnel and independent distributors. Competition in the wheel service equipment business is based on the factors described under “-Competition.”

Manufacturing facilities of our Industrial Technologies businesses are located in North America, South America, Europe and Asia.

************************************

The following discussion includes information common to both of our segments.

Materials 

Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including electronic components, steel, plastics and other petroleum-based products, cast iron, aluminum and copper. Prices of oil and gas affect our costs for freight and utilities. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications or qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components. We utilize a number of techniques to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources. During 2017 we had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on our business. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Intellectual Property 

We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others. Although in aggregate our intellectual property is important to our operations, we do not consider any single patent, trademark, 

5
copyright, trade secret or license to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole. From time to time we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. For a discussion of risks related to our intellectual property, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Fortive. 

Competition 

We believe that we are a leader in many of our served markets. Although our businesses generally operate in highly competitive markets, our competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment, since none of our competitors offer all of the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as we do. Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional competitors, competitors who are more specialized than we are in particular markets, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research, and financial capabilities. We face increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets. The number of competitors varies by product and service line. Our management believes that we have a market leadership position in most of the markets we serve. Key competitive factors vary among our businesses and product and service lines, but include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business and typically also include price, quality, performance, delivery speed, applications expertise, distribution channel access, service and support, technology and innovation, breadth of product, service and software offerings and brand name recognition. For a discussion of risks related to competition, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Seasonal Nature of Business

General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter and sales to OEMs are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality.

Working Capital

We maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items in either of our reportable segments. In addition, our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors.

Backlog

The following sets forth the unfulfilled orders attributable to each of our segments as of December 31 ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We expect that a majority of the unfilled orders as of December 31, 2017 will be delivered to customers within three to four months of such date. Given the relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of our products and the shortening of product life cycles, we believe that backlog is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.

Employee Relations 

As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 26,000 persons, of whom approximately 13,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 13,000 were employed outside of the United States. Of our United States employees, approximately 1,500 were hourly-rated, unionized employees. Outside the United States, we have government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where certain of our employees are represented by unions and/or works councils. The Company believes that its relationship with employees is good. 

6
Research and Development (“R&D”) 

We believe that our competitive position is maintained and enhanced through the development and introduction of new products and services that incorporate improved features and functionality, better performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these factors. We invest substantially in the development of new products. We conduct R&D activities for the purpose of designing and developing new products and applications that address customer needs and emerging trends, as well as enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of our existing products. Our R&D efforts include internal initiatives and those that use licensed or acquired technology. We expect to continue investing in R&D at a rate consistent with our historical trends, with the goal of maintaining or improving our competitive position, and entering new markets. The following sets forth our R&D expenditures over each of the last three years ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generally conduct R&D activities on a business-by-business basis, primarily in North America, Asia and Europe. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for R&D as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. For a discussion of the risks related to the need to develop and commercialize new products and product enhancements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Customer-sponsored R&D was not material in 2017, 2016 or 2015.

Government Contracts 

Although the substantial majority of our revenue in 2017 was from customers other than governmental entities, each of our segments has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities. As a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with governments and government-owned entities. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Regulatory Matters 

We face extensive government regulation both within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products, software and services. The following sections describe certain significant regulations that we are subject to. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. For a description of the risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management, and workplace health and safety. For a discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that our operations, products and services are subject to and other environmental contingencies, please refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. For a discussion of risks related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Export/Import Compliance

We are required to comply with various U.S. export/import control and economic sanctions laws, such as:

•the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, impose license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services listed on the United States Munitions List;

•the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export, in-country transfer and re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that have both commercial and military or proliferation applications);

7
•the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and

•the import regulations administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Other nations’ governments have implemented similar export/import control and economic sanction regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

International Operations 

Our products and services are available in markets worldwide, and our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia. We also have operations around the world, and this geographic diversity allows us to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides greater stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for products. In addition, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to continue developing products and sales models that successfully target high-growth markets.

The table below describes annual revenue derived from customers outside the United States as a percentage of total sales for the year ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate, based on geographic destination:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below describes long-lived assets located outside the United States as of December 31, as a percentage of total long-lived assets, by segment and in the aggregate (including assets held for sale):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional information related to revenues and long-lived assets by country, please refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and for information regarding deferred taxes by geography, please refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements.

The manner in which our products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region. Most of our sales in non-U.S. markets are made by our subsidiaries located outside the United States, though we also sell directly from the United States into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors and, in some cases, directly. In countries with low sales volumes, we generally sell through representatives and distributors.

Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and information about the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our business is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” For a discussion of risks related to our non-U.S. operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Major Customers 

No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2017, 2016 or 2015.

Available Information

We maintain an internet website at www.fortive.com. We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

8
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS