Item 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis below for Darden Restaurants, Inc. (Darden, the Company, we, us or our) should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related financial statement notes included in Part II of this report under the caption “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in May. Fiscal 2017, which ended May 28, 2017, consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2016, which ended May 29, 2016, consisted of 52 weeks and fiscal 2015, which ended May 31, 2015, consisted of 53 weeks. 

OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS 

Our business operates in the full-service dining segment of the restaurant industry. At May 28, 2017, we operated 1,695 restaurants through subsidiaries in the United States and Canada under the Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen®, The Capital Grille®, Yard House®, Bahama Breeze®, Seasons 52®, and Eddie V’s Prime Seafood® and Wildfish Seafood Grille® (collectively, Eddie V’s) trademarks. We own and operate all of our restaurants in the United States and Canada, except for 9 joint venture restaurants managed by us and 45 franchised restaurants. We also have 33 franchised restaurants in operation located in Latin America, the Middle East and Malaysia. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

On April 24, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen for $799.0 million in total consideration. The acquired operations of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen included 140 company-owned restaurants and 25 franchised restaurants. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen are included in our consolidated financial statements as of the date of acquisition. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for further details.

We believe that capable operators of strong, multi-unit brands have the opportunity to increase their share of the restaurant industry’s full-service segment. Generally, the restaurant industry is considered to be comprised of three segments: quick service, fast casual, and full service. All of our restaurants fall within the full-service segment, which is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe we have strong brands and that the breadth and depth of our experience and expertise sets us apart in the full-service segment of the restaurant industry. This collective capability is the product of investments over many years in areas that are critical to success in our business, including restaurant operations excellence, brand management excellence, supply chain, talent management and information technology, among other things.

With a focus on growing same-restaurant sales, we’ve implemented a “Back-to-Basics” approach rooted in strong operating fundamentals. We’re focused on improving culinary innovation and execution inside each of our brands, delivering attentive service to each and every one of our guests, and creating an inviting and engaging atmosphere inside our restaurants. We support these priorities with smart and relevant integrated marketing programs that resonate with our guests. By delivering on these operational and brand-building imperatives, we expect to increase our market share through new restaurant and same-restaurant sales growth and deliver best-in-class profitability.

The Darden support structure enables our brands to achieve their ultimate potential by: (1) driving advantages in supply chain and general and administrative support; (2) applying insights collected from our significant guest and transactional databases to enhance guest relationships and identify new opportunities to drive sales growth; and (3) relentlessly driving operating efficiencies and continuous improvement, operating with a sense of urgency and inspiring a performance-driven culture.

We seek to increase profits by leveraging our fixed and semi-fixed costs with sales from new restaurants and increased guest traffic and sales at existing restaurants. To evaluate our operations and assess our financial performance, we monitor a number of operating measures, with a special focus on two key factors: 

•Same-restaurant sales – which is a year-over-year 52-week comparison of each period’s sales volumes for restaurants open at least 16 months, including recently acquired restaurants, regardless of when the restaurants were acquired; and

•Segment profit – which is restaurant sales, less food and beverage costs, restaurant labor costs, restaurant expenses and marketing expenses (sometimes referred to as restaurant-level earnings).

Increasing same-restaurant sales can improve segment profit because these incremental sales provide better leverage of our fixed and semi-fixed restaurant-level costs. A restaurant brand can generate same-restaurant sales increases through increases in guest traffic, increases in the average guest check, or a combination of the two. The average guest check can be impacted by menu price changes and by the mix of menu items sold. For each restaurant brand, we gather daily sales data and regularly analyze the guest traffic counts and the mix of menu items sold to aid in developing menu pricing, product offerings and promotional strategies. We focus on balancing our pricing and product offerings with other initiatives to produce sustainable same-restaurant sales growth. We compute same-restaurant sales using restaurants open at least 16 months because this period is generally 

26

required for new restaurant sales levels to normalize. Sales at newly opened restaurants generally do not make a significant contribution to profitability in their initial months of operation due to operating inefficiencies. Our sales and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of new restaurant openings and closings, and relocations and remodeling of existing restaurants. Pre-opening expenses each period reflect the costs associated with opening new restaurants in current and future periods. 

Fiscal 2017 Financial Highlights

Our sales from continuing operations were $7.17 billion in fiscal 2017 compared to $6.93 billion in fiscal 2016. The 3.4 percent increase in sales from continuing operations was driven by a combined Darden same-restaurant sales increase of 1.8 percent, excluding Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, and the addition of 19 net new company-owned restaurants plus the addition of 140 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen purchased restaurants. 

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 were $482.5 million ($3.83 per diluted share) compared with net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2016 of $359.7 million ($2.78 per diluted share). Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 increased 34.1 percent and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 37.8 percent compared with fiscal 2016. 

Our net loss from discontinued operations was $3.4 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for fiscal 2017, compared with net earnings from discontinued operations of $15.3 million ($0.12 per diluted share) for fiscal 2016. When combined with results from continuing operations, our diluted net earnings per share were $3.80 and $2.90 for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Outlook

We expect combined Darden same-restaurant sales to increase in fiscal 2018 between 1.0 percent and 2.0 percent, and we expect fiscal 2018 sales from continuing operations to increase between 11.5 percent and 13.0 percent, including Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen. In fiscal 2018, we expect to open approximately 35 to 40 new restaurants, including Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, and we expect capital expenditures incurred to build new restaurants, remodel and maintain existing restaurants and technology initiatives to be between $400.0 million and $450.0 million.

In June 2017, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.63 per share, payable on August 1, 2017. Based on the $0.63 quarterly dividend declaration, our expected annual dividend is $2.52 per share, which reflects an increase of 12.5 percent compared to our fiscal 2017 annual dividend. Dividends are subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and, accordingly, the timing and amount of our dividends are subject to change. 

There are significant risks and challenges that could impact our operations and ability to increase sales and earnings. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and sensitive to economic cycles and other business factors, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits. Other risks and uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

27

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

To facilitate review of our results of operations, the following table sets forth our financial results for the periods indicated. All information is derived from the consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal years ended May 28, 2017, May 29, 2016 and May 31, 2015. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table details the number of company-owned restaurants currently reported in continuing operations, compared with the number open at the end of fiscal 2016 and the end of fiscal 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes six locations in Canada for all periods presented.

(2)Includes the 140 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen restaurants acquired on April 24, 2017. 

28

SALES 

The following table presents our company-owned restaurant sales and U.S. same-restaurant sales (SRS) by brand for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Same-restaurant sales is a year-over-year comparison of each period’s sales volumes for a 52-week year and is limited to restaurants open at least 16 months.

(2)Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen sales from company-owned restaurants are reflected for the period April 24, 2017 through May 28, 2017.

The following table presents our average annual sales per restaurant by brand for the periods indicated. Average annual sales are calculated as net sales divided by total restaurant operating weeks multiplied by 52 weeks.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen due to the proximity of the acquisition to our fiscal 2017 year end.

Olive Garden’s sales increase for fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase. The increase in U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2017 resulted from a 2.4 percent increase in average check combined with a 0.2 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. Olive Garden’s sales increase for fiscal 2016 was driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase partially offset by the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2015. The increase in U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2016 resulted from a 2.0 percent increase in average check combined with a 1.1 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. 

LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales increase for fiscal 2017 was driven by a same-restaurant sales increase combined with revenue from new restaurants. The increase in same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2017 resulted from a 1.6 percent increase in average check partially offset by a 0.4 percent decrease in same-restaurant guest counts. LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales increase for fiscal 2016 was driven by a same-restaurant sales increase combined with revenue from new restaurants, partially offset by the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2015. The increase in same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2016 resulted from a 3.0 percent increase in average check combined with a 0.5 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. 

In total, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52, Eddie V’s, Yard House and Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen generated sales in fiscal 2017 and 2016 that were 6.7 percent and 5.3 percent above fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. The sales increase for fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by the Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen acquisition and the incremental sales from new Yard House restaurants. Sales growth also reflected same-restaurant sales increases at The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V’s in fiscal 2017, partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease at Yard House. The sales increase for fiscal 2016 was 

29

primarily driven by incremental sales from new Yard House restaurants and same-restaurant sales increases at all five brands partially offset by the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2015. 

COSTS AND EXPENSES 

The following table sets forth selected operating data as a percent of sales from continuing operations for the periods indicated. This information is derived from the consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal years ended May 28, 2017, May 29, 2016 and May 31, 2015. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total operating costs and expenses from continuing operations were $6.49 billion in fiscal 2017, $6.31 billion in fiscal 2016 and $6.40 billion in fiscal 2015. As a percent of sales, total costs and expenses from continuing operations were 90.6 percent in fiscal 2017, 91.0 percent in fiscal 2016 and 94.6 percent in fiscal 2015. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016:

•Food and beverage costs decreased as a percent of sales as a result of pricing, cost savings initiatives and food cost deflation, primarily beef. 

•Restaurant labor costs were flat as a percent of sales as wage-rate inflation was offset by sales leverage and improved productivity. 

•Restaurant expenses (which include rent, utilities, repairs and maintenance, credit card, property tax, workers’ compensation, new restaurant pre-opening and other restaurant-level operating expenses) increased as a percent of sales, primarily due to higher rent expense resulting from leasebacks of properties included in the spin-off of Four Corners Property Trust (Four Corners) and individual sale-leasebacks (collectively, real estate transactions), partially offset by sales leverage.

•Marketing expenses decreased as a percent of sales as sales leverage was mostly offset by higher media cost. 

•General and administrative expenses decreased as a percent of sales, primarily due to expenses incurred in fiscal 2016 related to the real estate plan implementation partially offset by a pension settlement charge and expenses incurred in fiscal 2017 related to the acquisition and integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen.

•Depreciation and amortization expense decreased as a percent of sales primarily from the impact of the real estate transactions.

•Impairments and disposal of assets, net, were lower as a percent of sales due the benefit from lease termination and asset disposal gains in fiscal 2017 compared to restaurant-related impairments in fiscal 2016. 

30

Fiscal 2016 Compared to Fiscal 2015:

•Food and beverage costs decreased as a percent of sales as a result of favorable menu mix and pricing, cost savings initiatives and food cost deflation, primarily seafood and dairy. 

•Restaurant labor costs were flat as a percent of sales as wage-rate inflation, higher manager bonus and salary costs were offset by sales leverage. 

•Restaurant expenses (which include utilities, repairs and maintenance, credit card, lease, property tax, workers’ compensation, new restaurant pre-opening and other restaurant-level operating expenses) increased as a percent of sales, primarily as a result of increased rent expense partially offset by sales leverage and cost savings initiatives. 

•Marketing expenses decreased as a percent of sales, primarily as a result of sales leverage. 

•General and administrative expenses decreased as a percent of sales, primarily due to lower general and administrative expenses incurred in fiscal 2016 related to the real estate plan implementation as compared to the strategic action plan costs incurred in fiscal 2015. General and administrative expenses as a percent of sales also decreased as a result of sales leverage, support cost savings and the favorable settlement of legal matters. 

•Depreciation and amortization expense decreased as a percent of sales primarily from the impact of the real estate transactions and sales leverage.

•Impairments and disposal of assets, net, decreased as a percent of sales primarily due to higher restaurant-related impairments in fiscal 2015.

INTEREST EXPENSE

Net interest expense decreased as a percent of sales in fiscal 2017 primarily due to debt retirement costs of $106.8 million recorded in fiscal 2016 and lower average debt balances in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 due to the repayment of debt with proceeds from the real estate transactions and additional cash on hand. Net interest expense decreased as a percent of sales in fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower average debt balances in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 related to the retirement of $1.03 billion in principal of long-term debt in fiscal 2016. The decrease was partially offset by higher debt retirement costs of $106.8 million in fiscal 2016 compared to debt retirement costs of $91.3 million in fiscal 2015. 

INCOME TAXES 

The effective income tax rates for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 for continuing operations were 24.3 percent, 20.0 percent and (12.0) percent, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 and for fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was primarily due to higher earnings before income taxes. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was negative in fiscal 2015 primarily due to the impact of certain tax credits on lower earnings before income taxes driven primarily by costs incurred related to our strategic action plan. 

NET EARNINGS AND NET EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 were $482.5 million ($3.83 per diluted share) compared with net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2016 of $359.7 million ($2.78 per diluted share) and net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2015 of $196.4 million ($1.51 per diluted share). 

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 increased 34.1 percent and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 37.8 percent compared with fiscal 2016, primarily due to increased sales, lower food and beverage costs, marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses and impairments and disposal of assets, net as a percent of sales, partially offset by higher restaurant expenses as a percent of sales and a higher effective income tax rate. Our diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 were adversely impacted by approximately $0.10 due to a non-cash pension settlement charge and approximately $0.09 related to the acquisition and integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen.

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2016 increased 83.1 percent and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 84.1 percent compared with fiscal 2015, primarily due to increased sales, lower food and beverage costs, marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses and impairments and disposal of assets, net as a percent of sales, partially offset by higher restaurant expenses as a percent of sales and a higher effective income tax rate. Our diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2016 were adversely impacted by approximately $0.51 due to debt retirement costs and approximately $0.26 related to the real estate plan implementation and positively impacted by approximately $0.02 due to a tax benefit associated with the prior year lobster aquaculture divestiture.

31

EARNINGS (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

On an after-tax basis, results from discontinued operations for fiscal 2017 were a net loss of $3.4 million ($0.03 per diluted share) compared with earnings from discontinued operations for fiscal 2016 of $15.3 million ($0.12 per diluted share) and fiscal 2015 of $513.1 million ($3.96 per diluted share). Earnings from discontinued operations reflects pre-tax gains of $17.9 million recorded in fiscal 2016 and $837.0 million in fiscal 2015, related to the sale of Red Lobster. 

SEGMENT RESULTS

We manage our restaurant brands, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, The Capital Grille, Yard House, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s in North America as operating segments. We aggregate our operating segments into reportable segments based on a combination of the size, economic characteristics and sub-segment of full-service dining within which each brand operates. Our four reportable segments are: (1) Olive Garden, (2) LongHorn Steakhouse, (3) Fine Dining and (4) Other Business. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for further details.

Our management uses segment profit as the measure for assessing performance of our segments. The following table presents segment profit margin for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in Olive Garden’s segment profit margin for fiscal 2017 was driven primarily by additional rent expense resulting from the real estate transactions. The growth in Olive Garden’s segment profit margin for fiscal 2016 was driven primarily by leveraging positive same-restaurant sales, food and beverage cost favorability and cost reduction initiatives, partially offset by additional rent expense resulting from real estate transactions. LongHorn’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 were flat as additional rent expense resulting from the real estate transactions was offset by food cost deflation. The growth in LongHorn’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2016 was driven primarily by leveraging positive same-restaurant sales as well as improved cost of sales and lower marketing expense, partially offset by additional rent expense resulting from real estate transactions. The growth in Fine Dining’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 was driven primarily by food cost deflation, primarily beef, partially offset by higher restaurant expenses. The growth in Fine Dining’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2016 was driven primarily by improved food and beverage costs. The Other Business segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 were flat as food cost deflation was offset by higher labor costs. The growth for fiscal 2016 was driven by positive same-restaurant sales leverage and lower food and beverage costs.

SEASONALITY 

Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally. Typically, our average sales per restaurant are highest in the winter and spring, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, changes in the economy, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. 

IMPACT OF INFLATION 

We attempt to minimize the annual effects of inflation through appropriate planning, operating practices and menu price increases. We do not believe inflation had a significant overall effect on our annual results of operations during fiscal 2017 or fiscal 2016. We experienced higher than normal inflationary costs during fiscal 2015 and were able to partially reduce the annual impact utilizing these strategies. 

32

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report). Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. We consider the following estimates to be most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing our consolidated financial statements. 

Leases 

We evaluate our leases at their inception to estimate their expected term, which commences on the date when we have the right to control the use of the leased property and includes the non-cancelable base term plus all option periods we are reasonably assured to exercise. Our judgment in determining the appropriate expected term for each lease affects our evaluation of: 

•The classification and accounting for leases as capital versus operating; 

•The rent holidays and escalation in payments that are included in the calculation of straight-line rent; and

•The term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant facility are amortized. 

These judgments may produce materially different amounts of depreciation, amortization and rent expense than would be reported if different expected lease terms were used. 

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets 

Land, buildings and equipment and certain other assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The judgments we make related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets, definitions of lease terms and our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of these assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in usage or operating performance, desirability of the restaurant sites and other factors, such as our ability to sell our assets held for sale. As we assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our long-lived assets, significant adverse changes in these factors could cause us to realize an impairment loss. Based on a review of operating results for each of our restaurants, the amount of net book value associated with lower performing restaurants that would be deemed at risk for impairment is not material to our consolidated financial statements.

Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill and Trademarks 

Goodwill and trademarks are not subject to amortization and have been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are our restaurant brands. At May 28, 2017, we had the following amounts recorded as goodwill and trademarks at our brands:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Goodwill and trademark values for Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen represent preliminary estimates as the acquisition was completed on April 24, 2017. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report).

33

A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

We performed our annual impairment test of our goodwill and trademarks as of the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter using a qualitative assessment. In considering the qualitative approach, we evaluated factors including, but not limited to, macro-economic conditions, market and industry conditions, commodity cost fluctuations, competitive environment, share price performance, results of prior impairment tests, operational stability and the overall financial performance of the reporting units. Based on the results of our qualitative assessment, no impairment of goodwill or trademarks was indicated. Changes in circumstances existing at the measurement date or at other times in the future, or in the numerous estimates associated with management’s judgments and assumptions made in assessing the fair value of our goodwill and trademarks, could result in an impairment loss of a portion or all of our goodwill or trademarks. Due to the proximity of the acquisition to our fiscal 2017 year end, the preliminary estimates for goodwill and trademark related to Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen were not included in our qualitative assessment.

If our annual test resulted in an impairment of our goodwill or trademarks, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected and our leverage ratio for purposes of our credit agreement would increase. A leverage ratio exceeding the maximum permitted under our credit agreement would be a default under our credit agreement. At May 28, 2017, a write-down of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets, or any other assets in excess of approximately $1.08 billion would have been required to cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum. As our leverage ratio is determined on a quarterly basis, and due to the seasonal nature of our business, a lesser amount of impairment in future quarters could cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum. 

Unearned Revenues 

Unearned revenues represent our liability for gift cards that have been sold but not yet redeemed. The estimated value of gift cards expected to remain unused is recognized over the expected period of redemption as the remaining gift card values are redeemed, generally over a period of 10 years. Utilizing this method, we estimate both the amount of breakage and the time period of redemption. If actual redemption patterns vary from our estimates, actual gift card breakage income may differ from the amounts recorded. We update our estimates of our redemption period and our breakage rate periodically and apply that rate to gift card redemptions. Changing our breakage-rate assumption on unredeemed gift cards by 25 basis points would result in an adjustment in our unearned revenues of approximately $21.0 million. 

Income Taxes 

We estimate certain components of our provision for income taxes. These estimates include, among other items, depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, allowable tax credits for items such as taxes paid on reported employee tip income, effective rates for state and local income taxes and the tax deductibility of certain other items. We adjust our annual effective income tax rate as additional information on outcomes or events becomes available. 

Assessment of uncertain tax positions requires judgments relating to the amounts, timing and likelihood of resolution. As described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report), the $16.4 million balance of unrecognized tax benefits at May 28, 2017, includes $0.7 million related to tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts could change during the next 12 months based on the outcome of examinations. The $0.7 million relates to items that would impact our effective income tax rate. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash flows generated from operating activities are our principal source of liquidity, which we use to finance capital expenditures for new restaurants and to remodel and maintain existing restaurants, to pay dividends to our shareholders and to repurchase shares of our common stock. Since substantially all of our sales are for cash and cash equivalents, and accounts payable are generally due in 5 to 45 days, we are able to carry current liabilities in excess of current assets. In addition to cash flows from operations, we use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings to fund our capital needs. 

34

We currently manage our business and financial ratios to target an investment-grade bond rating, which has historically allowed flexible access to financing at reasonable costs. Currently, our publicly issued long-term debt carries “Baa3” (Moody’s Investors Service), “BBB” (Standard & Poor’s) and “BBB” (Fitch) ratings. Our commercial paper has ratings of “P-3” (Moody’s Investors Service), “A-2” (Standard & Poor’s) and “F-2” (Fitch). These ratings are as of the date of the filing of this report and have been obtained with the understanding that Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch will continue to monitor our credit and make future adjustments to these ratings to the extent warranted. The ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities, may be changed, superseded or withdrawn at any time and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

On April 10, 2017, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 3.850 percent senior notes due May 2027 under a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6, 2016. Discount and issuance costs, which totaled $4.4 million, are being amortized over the term of the notes using the straight-line method, the results of which approximate the effective interest method. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year commencing November 1, 2017. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the principal amount plus a make-whole premium. If we experience a change in control triggering event, unless we have previously exercised our right to redeem the notes, we may be required to purchase the notes from the holders at a purchase price equal to 101 percent of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.

We maintain a $750.0 million revolving Credit Agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement), with Bank of America, N.A. (BOA) as administrative agent, and the lenders and other agents party thereto. The Revolving Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured credit commitment to the Company and contains customary representations and affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt and a maximum consolidated lease adjusted total debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.75 to 1.00) and events of default usual for credit facilities of this type. As of May 28, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement. 

The Revolving Credit Agreement matures on October 24, 2018, and the proceeds may be used for commercial paper back-up, working capital and capital expenditures, the refinancing of certain indebtedness, certain acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin determined by reference to a ratings-based pricing grid (Applicable Margin), or the base rate (which is defined as the highest of the BOA prime rate, the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500 percent, and the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00 percent) plus the Applicable Margin. Assuming a “BBB” equivalent credit rating level, the Applicable Margin under the Revolving Credit Agreement will be 1.100 percent for LIBOR loans and 0.100 percent for base rate loans. As of May 28, 2017, we had no outstanding balances under the Revolving Credit Agreement. 

At May 28, 2017, our long-term debt consisted principally of: 

•$500.0 million of unsecured 3.850 percent senior notes due in May 2027;

•$150.0 million of unsecured 6.000 percent senior notes due in August 2035; and

•$300.0 million of unsecured 6.800 percent senior notes due in October 2037.

The interest rate on our $300.0 million 6.800 percent senior notes due October 2037 is subject to adjustment from time to time if the debt rating assigned to such series of notes is downgraded below a certain rating level (or subsequently upgraded). The maximum adjustment is 2.000 percent above the initial interest rate and the interest rate cannot be reduced below the initial interest rate. As of May 28, 2017, no such adjustments are made to this rate. 

Through our shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, depending on conditions prevailing in the public capital markets, we may issue unsecured debt securities from time to time in one or more series, which may consist of notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness in one or more offerings. 

From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated transactions. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and other factors. 

From time to time, we enter into interest rate derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk inherent in our operations. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report). 

35

A summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at May 28, 2017, is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes interest payments associated with existing long-term debt, including the current portion. Excludes discount and issuance costs of $13.4 million. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Includes commitments for food and beverage items and supplies, capital projects, information technology and other miscellaneous commitments.

(4)Includes expected contributions associated with our defined benefit plans and payments associated with our postretirement benefit plan and our non-qualified deferred compensation plan through fiscal 2027.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7)Consists solely of guarantees associated with leased properties that have been assigned to third parties and are primarily related to the disposition of Red Lobster. We are not aware of any non-performance under these arrangements that would result in our having to perform in accordance with the terms of the guarantees.

36

Our fixed-charge coverage ratio, which measures the number of times each year that we earn enough to cover our fixed charges, amounted to 5.0 times and 2.7 times, on a continuing operations basis, for the fiscal years ended May 28, 2017 and May 29, 2016, respectively. Our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio (which includes 6.25 times the total annual minimum rent on a consolidated basis of $303.5 million and $248.5 million for the fiscal years ended May 28, 2017 and May 29, 2016, respectively, as components of adjusted debt and adjusted total capital) was 59 percent and 53 percent as of May 28, 2017 and May 29, 2016, respectively. We include the lease-debt equivalent and contractual lease guarantees in our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio reported to shareholders, as we believe its inclusion better represents the optimal capital structure that we target from period to period and because it is consistent with the calculation of the covenant under our Revolving Credit Agreement. 

Based on these ratios, we believe our financial condition is strong. The composition of our capital structure is shown in the following table. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations were $918.2 million, $820.4 million and $874.3 million in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities include net earnings from continuing operations of $482.5 million, $359.7 million and $196.4 million in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased in fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher net earnings from continuing operations partially offset by the timing of payments of accounts payable and current period activity of taxable timing differences. Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations decreased in fiscal 2016 primarily due to current period activity of taxable timing differences and the timing of inventory purchases, offset by higher net earnings from continuing operations. 

Net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations were $1.07 billion in fiscal 2017 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $75.4 million in fiscal 2016 and net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations of $235.1 million in fiscal 2015. Capital expenditures incurred principally for building new restaurants, remodeling existing restaurants, replacing equipment, and technology initiatives were $293.0 million in fiscal 2017, compared to $228.3 million in fiscal 2016 and $296.5 million in fiscal 2015. Additionally, for fiscal 2017, net cash used in the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen was $764.4 million. For fiscal 2016, proceeds from the disposal of land, buildings and equipment of $325.2 million reflect the impact of closed sale-leaseback transactions. 

Net cash flows provided by financing activities from continuing operations were $129.2 million in fiscal 2017, compared to net cash flows used in financing activities from continuing operations of $1.12 billion in fiscal 2016 and $1.78 billion in fiscal 2015. Net cash flows provided by financing activities in fiscal 2017 reflect proceeds from the issuance of $500.0 million of senior notes and proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by dividend payments of $279.1 million and share repurchases of $230.2 million. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2016 reflected long-term debt payments of $1.10 billion, including repurchase premiums and make-whole provisions, dividend payments of $268.2 million and share repurchases of $184.8 million, partially offset by the $315.0 million cash dividend received by us from Four Corners and proceeds 

37

from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2015 included long-term debt payments of $1.07 billion, including repurchase premiums and make-whole provisions, dividend payments of $278.9 million, and share repurchases of $502.3 million and net repayments of short-term debt $207.6 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options.

Our defined benefit and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are determined using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies prescribed under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits and Topic 712, Compensation - Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits. We use certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of a discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We set the discount rate assumption annually for each plan at its valuation date to reflect the yield of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments, with lives that approximate the maturity of the plan benefits. At May 28, 2017, our discount rate was 4.06 percent and 3.98 percent, respectively, for our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based upon several factors, including our historical assumptions compared with actual results, an analysis of current market conditions, asset allocations and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for our defined benefit plans was 6.5 percent for fiscal year 2017, 6.5 percent for fiscal year 2016 and 7.0 percent for fiscal year 2015. We made defined benefit plans contributions of approximately $0.4 million, $25.4 million and $0.4 million in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect to contribute approximately $0.4 million to our defined benefit pension plans and approximately $1.3 million to our postretirement benefit plan during fiscal 2018. 

We have recognized net losses of $70.1 million (net of tax) and of $0.3 million (net of tax) as components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the defined benefit plans and postretirement benefit plan, respectively, as of May 28, 2017. These net losses represent changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation and plan assets resulting from differences in the assumptions used and actual experience. The amortization of the net loss component of our fiscal 2018 net periodic benefit cost for the defined benefit plans is expected to be approximately $1.7 million (net of tax). The amortization of the net gain component of our fiscal 2018 net periodic benefit cost for the postretirement benefit plan is expected to be approximately $1.9 million (net of tax).

We believe our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan assumptions are appropriate based upon the factors discussed above. However, other assumptions could also be reasonably applied that could differ from the assumptions used. These changes in assumptions would not significantly impact our funding requirements. 

We are not aware of any trends or events that would materially affect our capital requirements or liquidity. We believe that our internal cash-generating capabilities, the potential issuance of unsecured debt securities under our shelf registration statement and short-term commercial paper should be sufficient to finance our capital expenditures, debt maturities, stock repurchase program and other operating activities through fiscal 2018. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, sales or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

Our total current assets were $799.8 million at May 28, 2017, compared with $820.3 million at May 29, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in cash and cash equivalents driven by the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen. 

Our total current liabilities were $1.29 billion at May 28, 2017, compared with $1.19 billion at May 29, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in unearned revenues associated with gift card sales in excess of redemptions. 

APPLICATION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards.

38

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK