Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

(Dollars in millions) 

Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations.  

ABILITY TO RESPOND TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND FASHION TRENDS

 Our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner and to match our merchandise mix to prevailing consumer tastes. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could force us to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, consumer spending at our stores may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic, and general economic conditions.  

INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

 We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income.  

IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES

 The retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. In the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve the market’s needs. If we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining same-store sales, and declining profitability due to higher markdowns.  

STORE GROWTH PLAN

 As of February 2008, our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening 31 new or relocated full-line stores and remodeling 29 existing full-line stores. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. New store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely impact our return on investment. Performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted by our inability to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping at our stores. In the past, our expected operating dates have sometimes been delayed because of developer plan delays. Our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a manner that generates appropriate returns on investment could have an adverse impact on our future growth and profitability.  

BANKING OPERATIONS

 Our credit card operations, conducted through our federal thrift subsidiary, facilitate sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. Our finance charge revenue is subject to changes in interest rates which fluctuate based on market conditions. The market conditions influencing interest rates are based on economic factors that are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our ability to extend credit to our customers and to collect payments from them depends on many factors including compliance with applicable laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Changes in credit card use, payment patterns and default rates may result from a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control or predict with certainty. Changes that adversely impact our ability to extend credit and collect payments could negatively affect our results.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY

 The protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits.  

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING

 The training and development of our future leaders is critical to our long-term growth. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. In addition, if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without established succession plans, our business may suffer.  

MULTI-CHANNEL STRATEGY EXECUTION

 In 2005, we started to make changes in our Direct business that better align our online shopping environment and catalog with the customer experience in our full-line stores. These changes included: aligning our Direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores, catalogs and Web site, linking the full-line stores and Direct merchandise organizations; reducing the number and frequency of our Direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our Direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform. Our inability to successfully execute this strategy could impact our future operating performance.  

6   
BRAND AND REPUTATION

 We have a well-recognized brand that is synonymous with the highest level of customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value.  

CAPITAL EFFICIENCY AND PROPER ALLOCATION

 Our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. This includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business, and returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. To a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage the other key risks to our Company. The actions taken to address other specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency. If we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, we may fail to produce financial results that our shareholders have come to expect and we may experience a reduction in shareholder value.  

HUMAN RESOURCE REGULATIONS

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws such as wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. Federal and state wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California. Failure to comply with these laws could result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits and dissatisfied employees.  

EMPLOYMENT AND DISCRIMINATION LAWS

 State and federal employment and discrimination laws and the related case law continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. Failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and attendant harm to our business and results of operations.  

TECHNOLOGY

 We make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. We expect our combined capitalized and expense spend to be approximately $180 each year on information technology operations and system development, which is key to our growth. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investment, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below the requirements of the business opportunity may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, an inadequate investment in maintaining our current systems may result in a loss of system functionality and increased future costs to bring our systems up to date.  

We may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if the business is not ready or capable of accepting it. Excessive technological change affects the effectiveness of adoption, and could adversely affect the realization of benefits from the technology. However, not implementing enough technology could compromise our competitive position.  

DISTRIBUTION AND FULFILLMENT CENTERS

 We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our six distribution centers and our Direct fulfillment center. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and our customers. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any reason.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY

 We purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the dollar. We source goods from numerous countries and thus are affected by changes in numerous currencies and generally, by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to such currencies. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.  

SEASONALITY

 Our business is seasonal in nature. Due to our anniversary sale in July and the holidays in December, sales are higher for our Retail Stores in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. Accordingly, our results may vary considerably from quarter to quarter. In addition, we have significant additional cash requirements in the period leading up to the months of November and December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those months, including expenses for additional inventory, advertising and employees.  

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, NYSE, the banking industry and foreign countries. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, such as those arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  7   
ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS

 We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an acquiring person.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

Item 2. Properties.