PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

 Nordstrom incorporated in the state of Washington in 1946 as the successor to a retail shoe business that started in 1901. We are one of the nation’s leading fashion specialty retailers, with 157 U.S. stores located in 28 states. The west coast and east coast are the areas in which we have the largest presence. Nordstrom is comprised of four segments: Retail Stores, Direct, Credit, and Other.  

Retail Stores derives its revenues from sales of designer, luxury and high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. It includes our 103 ‘Nordstrom’ full-line stores, 50 discount ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, two ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques, and two clearance stores that operate under the name ‘Last Chance.’ The Nordstrom Rack stores purchase merchandise directly from manufacturers and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from our full-line stores.  

In 2007, we opened three full-line stores (Natick, Massachusetts; Novi, Michigan; and Denver, Colorado), opened one Rack store (Tukwila, Washington), and increased our ownership in two Jeffrey boutiques (Atlanta, Georgia and New York, New York). We also sold our four U.S. Façonnable boutiques (Los Angeles, California; Costa Mesa, California; New York, New York; and Miami, Florida), and our 37 international Façonnable boutiques. To date in 2008, we have opened two full-line stores (Aventura, Florida and Honolulu, Hawaii) and closed one free-standing shoe store (Honolulu, Hawaii). We are scheduled to open six more full-line stores (Burlington, Massachusetts; Clinton Township, Michigan; Thousand Oaks, California; Indianapolis, Indiana; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Naples, Florida), relocate one full-line store (Tacoma, Washington) and open three Rack stores (Naperville, Illinois; Laguna Hills, California; and Danvers, Massachusetts). In 2009, we are scheduled to open five full-line stores, relocate one full-line store and open two Rack stores.  

Direct generates revenues from sales of designer, luxury and high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories by serving our customers on the internet at www.nordstrom.com and through our catalogs. Direct segment’s sales are primarily shipped via third-party carriers from our fulfillment center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  

Through our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, we offer a private label card, two co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit cards and a debit card for Nordstrom purchases. The credit and debit cards feature a shopping-based loyalty program designed to increase customer visits and spending in our Retail Stores and Direct segments. Our Credit segment generates income through finance charges and fees on these cards.  

Our Other segment includes our product development team, called Nordstrom Product Group, which designs and coordinates the production of private label merchandise sold in our Retail Stores and Direct. In addition, this segment includes our corporate center operations. Until the sale of Façonnable in the third quarter of 2007, the Other segment also included our four U.S. Façonnable boutiques and the 37 Façonnable boutiques located in France, Portugal and Belgium. Façonnable is a wholesaler and retailer of high quality men’s, women’s and boys’ apparel and accessories with distribution to over 45 countries. Façonnable has licensee and franchisee agreements with others who operate wholesale distribution and/or boutique locations in Spain, Turkey, Greece, the Middle East, Taiwan, Canada and Latin America. We sold the Façonnable business in the third quarter of 2007. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion.  

For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 15 and Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

FISCAL YEAR END

 Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2007 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ended February 2, 2008. References to 2006 and 2005 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended February 3, 2007 and 52-week fiscal year ended January 28, 2006. References to 2008 relate to the 52 weeks ending January 31, 2009.  

TRADEMARKS

 We have approximately 144 registered trademarks or trademark applications. Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, John W. Nordstrom, Caslon, and Classiques Entier. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely provided that it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.  

RETURN POLICY

 We offer our customers a fair and liberal return policy at our full-line stores and Nordstrom Direct (online and catalog). Our Nordstrom Rack stores accept returns up to 30 days from the date of purchase. In general, our return policy is somewhat more generous than industry standards. We utilize historical return patterns to estimate our expected returns.  

SEASONALITY

 Due to our anniversary sale in July and the holidays in December, sales are higher for our Retail Stores and Direct in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters.  

INVENTORY

 We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with the selling patterns that we expect. For instance, we purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through early January). Also, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which extends over the last two weeks of July. We pay for our merchandise purchases under the terms established with our vendors, which is usually within 30 days of the date that the merchandise was shipped to us.  

4   
In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase merchandise from a wide variety of high-quality suppliers. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. Our suppliers include domestic and foreign businesses. We expect our suppliers to meet our “Nordstrom Partnership: Standards and Business Practice Guidelines,” which address our standards for matters such as law, labor, health and safety, and environment.  

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

 Our business is highly competitive. Each of our stores competes with other national, regional and local retail establishments that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, boutiques, mail order and Internet businesses. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the principal methods of competing in our industry include customer service, fashion, quality of product, depth of selection, store environment and location.  

EMPLOYEES

 During 2007, we regularly employed on a full or part-time basis approximately 55,000 employees. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 58,500 employees in July 2007 and 56,500 in December 2007.  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

 Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking” statements (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including anticipated results, planned store openings, capital expenditures, and trends in our operations. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon various factors including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.” These factors include our ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, effective inventory management, the impact of economic and competitive market forces, successful execution of our store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to the company, successful execution of our multi-channel strategy, our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation, efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources, successful execution of our technology strategy, the impact of terrorist activity or war on our customers and the retail industry, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, changes in interest rates, our ability to maintain our relationships with our employees, our ability to control costs, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers’ purchasing patterns, and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company.  

These and other factors could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. As a result, while we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, you should not place undue reliance on those statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.  

SEC FILINGS

 We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

WEB SITE ACCESS

 Our Internet Web site address is www.nordstrom.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events over our Internet Web site.  

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

 We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the rules of the SEC, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors (“Codes of Ethics”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We have posted on our Web site our Codes of Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive, and Finance committees. These items are also available in print to any person without charge upon request to:  

Nordstrom, Inc. Investor Relations

 P.O. Box 2737

 Seattle, Washington 98111

 (206) 303-3200

 invrelations@nordstrom.com  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  5   
Item 1A. Risk Factors.