Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

(Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts) 

Nordstrom is a fashion specialty retailer offering designer, luxury and high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise. We offer our products through multiple channels including full-line ‘Nordstrom’ stores, discount ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques, catalogs and on the Internet at www.nordstrom.com. Our stores are located throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a variety of payment products and services including our loyalty program.  

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

 We believe we are well positioned to grow the value of our business by executing the following key initiatives: tailoring our merchandise offering within existing product categories to better meet the needs of our core customers, improving the consistency and shopping experience for our customers across all channels, and continuing to increase our presence where our customers shop. We focus on customers who love fashion, value quality — both in merchandise and design — and appreciate great service.  

Merchandise Strategies

 We’ve found that there’s a great deal of opportunity to grow our sales in existing stores simply by earning a greater share of our customers’ business across multiple product categories. We use customer insight to better serve our customers’ needs and wants. Our goal is to provide customers with a best-in-market selection of designer, luxury and quality fashion brands. Our top performing merchandise division was our designer category, including apparel, shoes and accessories merchandise. We continue to enhance our designer offering across categories and improve our distribution from the world’s best luxury brands. Our breadth of merchandise will allow us to serve both the growing core customer segment as well as those who aspire to luxury and quality.  

Multi-Channel Shopping Experience

 As a multi-channel retailer, we are positioned to respond to evolving customer needs and expectations. We continue to strive to offer knowledgeable, friendly and welcoming service, both in our stores and online with an integrated offering and experience. We have committed the necessary resources and critical projects are close to completion in this effort.  

Our online store is essential to creating and maintaining relationships with many of our most active and loyal customers. Many customers begin shopping with us online and migrate to our stores. By giving customers a consistent shopping experience in-store and online, we’re making progress to become more relevant to today’s shoppers. We continue to use technology to find new ways to serve our customers better, such as one view of inventory and point of sale upgrades. We also continue to make improvements to our Web site to make shopping easier.  

Increase Our Presence

 We continue to grow our presence in the top markets and best retail locations around the country. We see potential to gain market share and grow our business by increasing our presence where our customers live. Fortunately, we are in an advantageous position to reach new customers through building stores and remodeling our current ones. We’ve recently launched a $3,000 five-year capital plan, with 82% of the dollars allocated to new stores, remodels and relocations.  

We will continue to have a disciplined approach to real estate acquisitions, adding new stores when and where they pass our criteria. Our current plan is to have 140 to 150 full-line stores by 2015.  

OVERVIEW

 In 2007, we continued to grow our business despite operating in a more challenging consumer and retail environment compared to past years. A slower economic environment weighed on the overall market, resulting in softer trends throughout the retail industry in the second half of the year. Our ability to provide a focused and edited merchandise offering, incorporating the best of what the marketplace has to offer in terms of fashion, quality and brands, has contributed to our results in this and past years. Our customers want the best merchandise available. Key highlights for 2007 include:  

   •   We achieved positive same-store sales growth for the sixth year in a row. Same-store sales increased 3.9% on top of our 7.5% increase in 2006 and our 6.0% increase in 2005.  

   •   Increased markdowns at our full-line stores led to a 6 basis point decline in our gross profit rate.  

   •   Our selling, general and administrative rate improved 9 basis points primarily from lower incentives tied to company performance, partially offset by higher bad debt expense.  

   •   Full year net earnings increased 5.5% as a result of same-store sales increases, the openings of three full-line stores during 2007, and lower incentive costs tied to company performance.  

   •   Earnings per diluted share increased 12.9% over last year to $2.88. We repurchased 39 shares totaling $1,728 during the year, which had a $0.07 positive impact on earnings per diluted share.    

Like many other retailers, Nordstrom follows the retail 4-5-4 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in fiscal 2006 (the 53rd week). The 53rd week is not included in same-store sales calculations.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  15   
Securitization of Accounts Receivable

 On May 1, 2007, we converted the Nordstrom private label card and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card programs into one securitization program, which is accounted for as a secured borrowing (on-balance sheet). When we combined the securitization programs, our investment in asset backed securities was converted from available-for-sale securities to receivables. Based on past payment patterns, our receivable portfolio was repaid within approximately eight months. During that time, we transitioned the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivable portfolio to historical cost, net of bad debt allowances, on our balance sheet.  

Substantially all of the Nordstrom private label receivables and 90% of the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables are securitized. Under the securitization, the receivables are transferred to a third-party trust on a daily basis. The balance of the receivables transferred to the trust fluctuates as new receivables are generated and old receivables are retired (through payments received, charge-offs, or credits for merchandise returns). On May 1, 2007, the trust issued securities that are backed by the receivables. These combined receivables back the Series 2007-1 Notes, the Series 2007-2 Notes, and an unused variable funding note that is discussed in Note 8: Long-term debt.  

Prior to May 1, 2007, the co-branded Nordstrom VISA was “off-balance sheet” and finance charges and other income were recorded net of interest and write-offs. The co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio was brought on-balance sheet and from May 1, 2007, all of the finance charges and other income related to the portfolio, net of transitional write-offs, were recorded in finance charges and other, net.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Net Sales  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 NET SALES

 Our full-line stores had a 2.5% same-store sales increase in 2007, on top of 5.9% in the same period in 2006. The Midwest, South and Northwest were our strongest performing regions during 2007. By category, our largest same-store sales increases came from our designer apparel, women’s accessories and men’s merchandise categories. The designer category, which benefited from additional investment as an important component of our merchandise strategy, had a double-digit same-store sales increase. Designer apparel offers fashion-forward and aspirational products, which drove the increase. Women’s accessories benefited from increased sales of handbags and fashion jewelry. The increase in men’s apparel was in part due to growth in our younger contemporary offering.  

Our Rack same-store sales increased 8.7% in 2007, in addition to last year’s 10.9% increase. Rack purchases the majority of its merchandise from third parties and serves as a clearance channel for our full-line stores. The sales growth came from all regions and merchandise categories. Same-store sales were consistent across all regions, which showed high single-digit increases. Merchandise categories driving the largest same-store sales increases for Rack were the accessories and cosmetics category and the men’s category. The men’s increase reflects sales from premium denim, suits and dress shirts. High performance bodywear, watches and sunglasses led the accessories and cosmetics categories.  

Nordstrom Direct’s 2007 total net sales increased 16.7% to $633. The growth in our Direct business was driven by our efforts to better align our online shopping environment with the customer experience in our full-line stores. This includes aligning our merchandise offering with the full-line stores to create a seamless experience for customers.  

Total company net sales increased 3.1% as a result of our same-store sales increases as well as from the three full-line stores and one Rack store opened during fiscal 2007. The 2006 fiscal calendar had 53 weeks compared to our normal operating calendar of 52 weeks. In the 53rd week of 2006, we had sales of $118. Excluding the extra week of sales in fiscal 2006, total sales increased 4.6% in fiscal year 2007.  

16   
2006 VS 2005 NET SALES

 All of our full-line store regions and most of our full-line store merchandise categories had same-store sales increases. Our full-line stores had a 5.9% same-store sales increase, ahead of 5.4% in 2005. Our compelling merchandise offering, combined with customer service, drove sales increases throughout our business, particularly in accessories, cosmetics and men’s apparel. The largest increase was in our accessories category, driven by handbags and sunglasses. Cosmetics benefited from increases in the artistry and prestigious branded lines. Additionally, the men’s increase came from men’s contemporary, including fashion denim and t-shirts.  

Our Rack same-store sales increased 10.9% in 2006, on top of an increase of 14.8% in 2005. The sales growth came from all regions and merchandise categories.  

Our online store sales drove Nordstrom Direct’s 2006 total net sales increase of 23.5%. Our online sales benefited from the overall Internet marketplace expansion, driven by the continued adoption of higher-speed Internet connections which allow for convenient and efficient shopping, as well as utilization of the Internet as a tool for research and information before making a purchase decision. Catalog sales experienced an overall decline because we reduced our catalog mailings beginning in the middle of 2005.  

Total net sales increased 10.8% as a result of our same-store sales increases as well as from the five full-line stores and one Rack store opened since February 2006. We also relocated one full-line store and expanded one Rack store, which contributed to our increase in total net sales. In the 53rd week, we had sales of $118. Sales for the 53rd week represented 1.5% of the total percentage increase versus 2005.  

2008 FORECAST OF SAME-STORE SALES

 In 2008, we have opened two full-line stores and plan to open six more full-line stores and three Rack stores. This will increase retail square footage by approximately 6%. We expect 2008 same-store sales to be approximately flat to a 2% decrease, with the first half of the year lower than the annual rate and the second half of the year higher than the annual rate.  

Gross Profit  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

* Inventory turnover rate calculated as annual cost of sales divided by 5-quarter average inventory. 

2007 VS 2006 GROSS PROFIT

 Our gross profit rate is made up of both merchandise margin rate and buying and occupancy cost rate. Compared to last year, our gross profit rate declined 6 basis points, driven primarily by markdowns at our full-line stores. During the year we experienced increasing inventory levels coupled with slower sales trends. To realign our inventory levels, we took higher markdowns during the last half of the year. The increase in markdowns was offset by a decrease in our buying and occupancy costs. The decrease in these expenses related to performance-based incentives and lower expense resulting from the sale of our Façonnable business.  

The increase in our average inventory per square foot supports the growth of our designer business in apparel, accessories and shoes. Although we encountered softer sales trends during the latter half of 2007, inventory discipline and growth in sales throughout the year resulted in improvement in our inventory turnover rate, which increased 1.9%.  

2006 VS 2005 GROSS PROFIT

 Our gross profit rate improved 75 basis points, driven primarily by expansion of our merchandise margin rate. All major merchandise categories contributed to this rate expansion. Our women’s apparel category experienced significant rate expansion in the second half of the year due to strategy changes that brought a sharper focus to our merchandise offering, resulting in more regular price selling and fewer markdowns.  

For the first time, in 2006 our buying and occupancy costs included expenses related to stock options awarded primarily to our merchant and product development groups. These costs were $12 and impacted our gross profit rate by 14 basis points. Despite this additional expense, our buying and occupancy cost rate also improved, driven by sales growth relative to our mostly fixed buying and occupancy costs.  

Sales growth and continued inventory discipline resulted in improvement in our inventory turnover rate, which increased 4.5%.  

2008 FORECAST OF GROSS PROFIT

 In 2008, we expect a net 30 to 60 basis point decrease in our gross profit rate as we will have additional occupancy costs from the eight full-line stores and three Rack stores we will open in 2008.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  17   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 The increase in selling, general and administrative dollars in 2007 compared to 2006 is largely due to an increase in bad debt expense. In addition to the incremental bad debt expense related to the transition of our accounting treatment for our co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables to on-balance sheet, we observed an increase in delinquency and loss rates. However, our credit card delinquency rates, while rising, remain below the rates for the industry and major card issuers. The increase in bad debt expense was partially offset by decreases in our incentive costs tied to company performance. Our selling, general and administrative rate improved 9 basis points year over year due to the reduction in incentive costs tied to company performance being mostly offset by higher bad debt expense.  

2006 VS 2005 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 The changes in selling, general and administrative expense dollars in 2006 compared to 2005 are largely a result of increases in variable expenses such as labor and stock option expense. The increase in selling labor directly correlates to our sales growth. Our other costs are mostly fixed and as sales increased they provided selling, general and administrative rate improvement. Non-selling labor dollars increased over the prior year, but at a lower rate than our sales growth. Additionally, stock option expense was included in our consolidated statement of earnings for the first time in 2006 as a result of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123(R)”).  

In 2005, our selling, general and administrative rate was reduced by 24 basis points for favorable developments in our workers’ compensation reserve. Legislation was enacted in 2003 and 2004 that positively impacted the cost of California workers’ compensation claims. In addition to an improved regulatory climate in California, our workers’ compensation reserve was also positively impacted by a significant reduction in the number of claims that involved employees requiring time away from work.  

2008 FORECAST OF SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 In 2008, our selling, general and administrative rate is expected to increase by 60 to 80 basis points driven by a lower same-store sales plan and continued investment in our long-term growth. Our operating model normally results in an improved selling, general and administrative rate when we achieve a minimum of low single-digit same-store sales. The combination of our lower same-store sales plan as well as our planned new stores and the related pre-opening costs will likely cause our 2008 selling, general and administrative rate to increase when compared to prior years. We will continue to invest in high return projects, including new stores, which we believe will create long-term value.  

Finance Charges and Other, Net  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 FINANCE CHARGES AND OTHER, NET

 Finance charges and other, net increased $32, primarily due to converting the Nordstrom private label card and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables into one securitization program on May 1, 2007. Prior to May 1, 2007, the co-branded Nordstrom VISA was “off-balance sheet” and revenues were recorded net of interest and write-offs. The co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio was brought on-balance sheet and from May 1, 2007, all of the finance charges and other income related to the portfolio, net of transitional write-offs, were recorded in finance charges and other, net.  

2006 VS 2005 FINANCE CHARGES AND OTHER, NET

 Finance charges and other, net increased $43, primarily due to growth in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card program. The principal balances of receivables in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio, which in 2006 were held by a separate trust in which we held retained interests, increased 22.9% during 2006. The receivables growth increase produced an increase in the trust’s earnings and as a result, the income recorded in our consolidated statement of earnings.  

In addition, income from finance charges on our private label card increased due to program growth.  

In July 2006, we received $6 of proceeds from the VISA Check/Master Money Antitrust Litigation. These proceeds were recorded as a gain in the second quarter of 2006 in finance charges and other, net.  

2008 FORECAST OF FINANCE CHARGES AND OTHER, NET

 We expect finance charges and other, net, to increase $50 to $60 in 2008 due to growth in credit card income related to the increased volume on our co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card which will be partially offset by lower interest rates on customer accounts. Additionally, there is the year over year impact of $21 of transitional write-offs on the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit cards which lowered finance charges and other, net. These transitional write-offs were due to the securitization transaction that occurred in early 2007 and these charges will not recur in 2008.  

18   
Gain on Sale of Façonnable

 During the third quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of the Façonnable business in exchange for cash of $216, net of transaction costs, and realized a gain on sale of $34. The impact to reported earnings per diluted share for the year was $0.09, net of tax of $13.  

Interest Expense, Net  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 We experienced higher interest expense, net, of $74 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the issuance of $850 in secured notes during the first quarter and our $1,000 debt offering during the fourth quarter.  

2006 VS 2005 INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 Interest expense, net decreased $2 in 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease was primarily due to increased interest income from higher average cash investment balances.  

2008 FORECAST OF INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

 Our 2008 net interest expense will be impacted by several factors. Because of the additional debt incurred in 2007, we expect interest expense to increase due to volume. Interest rates are currently lower than 2007 levels and we expect to benefit from these lower rates with respect to the portion of our debt that is variable and our interest rate swap. Additionally, interest income is expected to be negatively impacted by market rate declines as well as lower levels of invested funds. We currently expect interest expense, net, to be approximately $55 to $60 higher due to these factors. For further information, we refer you to our Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included as Item 7A of this Form 10-K.  

Income Tax Expense  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 Our effective tax rate in 2007 increased from the 2006 rate because of the current year impact of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”) and changes in our estimates of the carrying value of our deferred tax assets.  

2006 VS 2005 INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 Our effective tax rate in 2006 increased from the 2005 rate because current year changes in our estimates of the taxes due or recoverable for prior year activities and because the 2005 expense was lower due to a higher than expected utilization of a loss carryforward.  

2008 FORECAST OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE

 In 2008, considering the federal tax rate of 35.0%, the net effect of state income taxes, the net effect of permanently nondeductible items and the additional current year expense due to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”), we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 38.7%.  

Net Earnings and Earnings per Diluted Share  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2007 VS 2006 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 In 2007, net earnings increased 5.5% and earnings per diluted share increased 12.9% as a result of same-store sales increases, the three full-line stores opened since February 2007 and lower incentive costs tied to company performance. These increases were offset by increased markdowns at our full-line stores and higher bad debt expense. Additionally, earnings per diluted share for 2007 were impacted by the following transactions:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19   
2006 VS 2005 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 In 2006, our 7.5% same-store sales increase combined with gross profit rate and selling, general and administrative rate improvement drove net earnings of $678 and earnings per diluted share of $2.55. The 53rd week contributed $0.02 to earnings per diluted share. Additionally, in 2006, we repurchased 16 shares of our common stock.  

2008 FORECAST OF EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE

 We expect our earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $2.75 to $2.90 in 2008.  

Credit Card Contribution  

The Nordstrom Credit card products are designed to grow retail sales and customer relationships by providing superior payment products, services and loyalty benefits. Nordstrom cards are issued by Nordstrom fsb, a federally chartered thrift and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Qualified customers have a choice of the Nordstrom private label card, two co-branded Nordstrom VISA® cards, or a Nordstrom MOD® card. The MOD card facilitates purchases at Nordstrom, drawing funds from the customer’s existing checking account at any financial institution. Each card enables participation in the Nordstrom Fashion RewardsTM program, through which the customer accumulates points which, upon reaching a cumulative purchase threshold, result in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores. Primary benefits of the Fashion Rewards program include:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe participation in the Fashion Rewards program has resulted in beneficial shifts in customer spending patterns and incremental sales. The estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that will be issued and redeemed under the rewards program are recorded in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the Credit segment.  

Credit card revenues include finance charges, late and other fees, and interchange fees which are recorded in “Finance charges and other, net” in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. We do not charge fees to our retail stores when customers use our cards in our Retail and Direct segments. The majority of credit account balances have finance charge rates that vary with changes in the prime rate. We believe that the design of the Nordstrom credit card products as well as the Fashion Rewards programs have contributed to the growth in our Credit segment.  

Interest is allocated to the Credit segment based on the debt that is secured by our Nordstrom private label and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Operational and marketing expenses are incurred to support and service our credit card products.  

The following table illustrates a detailed view of our operational results of the Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the co-branded VISA receivables of $21 are included in finance charges and other, net on our consolidated statement of earnings. In the above disclosure this amount is included in bad debt expense rather than finance charges and other income. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period, as discussed in Securitization of Accounts Receivable.  

20   
In order to view the total economic contribution of our credit card program, the following additional items need to be considered:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The following table illustrates total credit card contribution, including the items discussed above:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Interest expense increased in 2007 due to higher borrowings from portfolio growth. 2006 interest expense reflects higher interest rate trends and higher borrowings due to portfolio growth.  

Credit division expenses include a bad debt provision. Delinquency and write-offs increased in 2007, reflecting credit industry trends. The allowance as a percent of on-balance sheet accounts receivable increased in 2007, reflecting higher estimated losses inherent in the current receivable portfolio. In 2007, we also incurred one-time transitional charge-offs associated with bringing the co-branded VISA receivables on-balance sheet. Write-offs declined in 2006 following an increase in bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarter of 2005 which was the result of a change in federal bankruptcy laws. The allowance as a percent of on-balance sheet accounts receivable decreased in 2006, reflecting lower current and expected write-offs. Bad debt expense can be summarized as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the co-branded VISA receivables of $21 are included in finance charges and other, net on our consolidated statement of earnings. In the above disclosure this amount is included in bad debt expense rather than finance charges and other income. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period, as discussed in Securitization of Accounts Receivable.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21   
Operational and marketing expense as a percent of credit volume increased from 2.3% in 2006 and 2005 to 2.4% in 2007 due to additional expense of $13 associated with the introduction of Fashion Rewards in 2007. Without these expenses, operational and marketing expenses as a percent of Credit volume would have decreased.  

The following table summarizes our accounts receivable and related metrics for the last three fiscal years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The decline in credit card contribution, net of tax, as a percentage of net accounts receivable investment in 2007 was driven by increased bad debt expense, as discussed above. Additionally, as discussed above, in 2007 we had additional expense associated with the introduction of Fashion Rewards.  

Key growth metrics for the Credit division include:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Growth in the volume and amount of credit transactions typically results in related growth in credit card receivables and, in turn, growth in finance charges and other income. Credit volume and finance charges and other income growth were favorably affected by the 53rd week in 2006.  

Fourth Quarter Results

 Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2007 were $212 compared with $232 in 2006. Total sales for the quarter decreased 4.4% to $2,514 and same-store sales were approximately flat. The 2006 fiscal calendar had 53 weeks compared to our normal operating calendar of 52 weeks; therefore, the fourth quarter of 2006 included an extra week (“the 53rd week”). Excluding the extra week of sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, total sales were flat in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Our designer apparel, accessories, and women’s shoe merchandise categories experienced the largest same-store sales increases. Designer apparel features luxury and high-fashion products. Handbags led the accessories category while women’s shoes benefited from the sale of comfort boots.  

Our gross profit rate declined to 37.6% from 38.3% last year. Merchandise margin decreased versus the prior year, driven mainly by higher markdowns.  

Our selling, general and administrative rate improved 68 basis points from 26.0% to 25.4%. The primary driver was lower incentives tied to company performance, partially offset by higher bad debt expense. Although our overall credit card quality is above average, we experienced higher delinquency and loss rates in the fourth quarter of 2007. However, these were in line with our expectations and, the overall quality of our credit portfolio remains high.  

22   
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as follows:  

 ROIC =    Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT)  

     Average Invested Capital     

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented. When read in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared to return on assets, it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. In the past three years, we have incorporated ROIC into our key financial metrics, and since 2005 have used it as an executive incentive measure. Overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders’ return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended February 2, 2008, our ROIC decreased to 19.4% compared to 20.9% for the 12 months ended February 3, 2007. Our ROIC decreased primarily due to a lower percentage increase in earnings before interest and income taxes compared to the percentage increase in average invested capital. The increase in average invested capital in 2007 compared to 2006 is primarily due to the securitization transaction on May 1, 2007, which brought the entire portfolio of co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on-balance sheet as of that date. ROIC, however, is not a measure of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See our ROIC reconciliation to GAAP below. The closest GAAP measure is return on assets, which decreased to 13.1% from 14.0% for the last 12 months ended February 2, 2008 compared to the 12 months ended February 3, 2007.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Depreciation based upon estimated asset base of capitalized operating leases as described in Note 4 below.  

2 Based upon the trailing 12-month average. 

3 Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, other current liabilities and income taxes payable. 

4 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base which is calculated as the trailing 12 months rent expense multiplied by 8. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23   
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

 Overall, cash decreased by $45 to $358 as of February 2, 2008. The decrease was driven by returns to our shareholders through dividends and repurchases of our common stock, principal payments on long-term borrowings, and capital expenditures. These decreases were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt, cash provided by operating activities, and proceeds received from the sale of Façonnable.  

Operating Activities  

2007 VS 2006 OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 Net cash flow from operating activities decreased from $1,142 to $161, a decrease of $981 primarily driven by our conversion of our co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables into an on-balance sheet securitization program in the first quarter of 2007. As a result of the transaction, we recorded the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on our consolidated balance sheet and eliminated our investment in asset backed securities resulting in a decline of operating cash flow of $881.  

2006 VS 2005 OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 Net cash flow from operating activities increased from $776 to $1,142, an increase of $366 primarily because we reduced our investment in asset backed securities by $350 to fund the repayment of $300 of private label securitization debt. Also, we were successful in expanding our private label card and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card programs, which increased our investment in these programs but provided increased earnings.  

2008 FORECAST FOR OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 In 2008, we expect cash flow from operating activities to improve in part due to the non-reoccurrence of the 2007 securitization transaction. In 2007, we moved the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables onto our balance sheet as part of the securitization transaction which reduced our 2007 cash flow from operating activities.  

Investing Activities

 Net cash flow used in investing activities increased $52 from $218 in 2006 to $270 in 2007. In 2007, we sold our Façonnable business in exchange for cash of $216, net of transaction costs. These proceeds were offset by investing cash outflows for capital expenditures totaling $501.  

In 2005 and 2006, we had two principal types of investing activities: capital expenditures and short-term investments. In 2006, we sold our short-term investments and primarily used the proceeds for common stock repurchases.  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

 Our annual capital expenditures ranged from $264 to $501 between 2005 and 2007. The largest components of these expenditures were for new or relocated stores and store remodels.  

In 2007 we opened three full-line stores at Natick Collection in Natick, Massachusetts; Twelve Oaks Mall in Novi, Michigan; and Cherry Creek Shopping Center in Denver, Colorado. We also opened one Rack store at Southcenter Square in Tukwila, Washington. Together these openings increased our gross square footage approximately 2.6%. Our total square footage as of February 2, 2008 was 21. In 2007, 51% of our capital expenditures were for new or relocated stores, 24% were for major remodels and 3% were for minor remodels. In addition, 8% of our capital expenditures were for information technology and 14% were for other projects.  

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,037. With these capital expenditures, we added stores, enhanced existing facilities and improved our information systems. More than 1.1 square feet of retail store space have been added during this period, representing an increase of 5.9% since January 29, 2005.  

We expect that our capital expenditures will be approximately $3,000 over the next five years, with $536 planned for 2008. We plan to use 55% of this investment to build new and relocated stores, 27% on remodels, 8% on information technology and 10% for minor remodels and other projects.  

Compared to the previous five years, capital expenditures will more than double, with increased spending allocated to new stores. Our current five-year plans outline a 29% increase in square footage, with 32 announced new stores announced through 2012; over half of these stores will be in our Northeast, South and Midwest regions. We believe we have the capacity to address additional capital investments should opportunities arise.  

In the second half of 2008, we expect to open four new full-line stores and three Rack stores, and in the first half of 2009, we expect to open three new full-line stores and two Rack stores. We typically incur the majority of our pre-opening costs in the six months prior to opening. In 2008, incremental new store pre-opening costs, which will be recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, are expected to impact our earnings per diluted share by $0.03.  

As of February 2, 2008, we were contractually committed to spend $157 for constructing new stores, remodeling existing stores, and other capital projects.  

24   
Financing Activities

 Our net cash provided by financing increased $1,048 from $984 of cash used in financing activities to $64 provided by financing activities mainly due to proceeds from long-term borrowings, net. We use our net cash provided by operating activities and our proceeds from financing activities to repay long-term borrowings, pay dividends, and to repurchase our common stock. In 2007, we conducted an extensive review of our capital structure and determined that we should add a moderate amount of leverage. Our target capital structure is 2x Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR, a level of leverage that is consistent with our goal of maintaining current credit ratings.  

DEBT ISSUANCE

 In the first quarter of 2007, the Private Label Trust used our previously existing variable funding facility to issue a total of $150 in Notes. On May 1, 2007, we paid the outstanding balance and terminated this facility. At that time, we entered into a new securitization transaction, issuing $850 in secured notes (the Series 2007-1 Class A & B Notes, due April 2010 and the Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes, due April 2012) and establishing a variable funding facility backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a capacity of $300. During the third quarter, the combined Nordstrom VISA and Private Label Trust issued $220 of Notes to fund share repurchases, which we paid off by the end of the year.  

During the third quarter of 2007, we entered into an agreement for a new variable funding facility backed by the remaining 10% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a commitment of $100. No issuances have been made against this facility during 2007. Borrowings under the facility will incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third party bank conduit plus specified fees.  

In December 2007, we issued $650 aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due 2018 and $350 aggregate principal amount of 7% senior unsecured notes due 2038 for proceeds of $988, net of discount. The interest rates were higher than historical average, due largely to recent fluctuating market conditions and the softer retail environment. We used the note proceeds to pay down our short-term borrowings and repurchase shares.  

We have the capacity to issue commercial paper under our new dealer agreement that is supported by our unsecured line of credit. During the third quarter of 2007, we issued commercial paper, and as of November 3, 2007, the outstanding balance was $392. As a result of the December 2007 debt issuance, we reclassified $302 of the outstanding balance of commercial paper from commercial paper to long-term debt as of November 3, 2007, because it was refinanced by the debt. The commercial paper was issued in order to fund share repurchase activity and the growth from the on-balance sheet co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables.  

DEBT RETIREMENT

 The following table outlines our debt retirement activity:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

On May 1, 2007, we paid the $150 outstanding balance on the 2001-1 Variable Funding Note and terminated the facility in connection with entering an agreement for a new variable funding facility (2007-A Variable Funding Note). Under the 2007-A Variable Funding Note we issued and repaid $220 during the year. Additionally, with the proceeds of the debt issued in the fourth quarter, we repaid $302 of the commercial paper facility, of which $392 was outstanding at the end of the third quarter. The remaining $90 of the commercial paper was paid during the fourth quarter of 2007 using operating cash flows.  

We retired the $300 4.82% Private Label Securitization debt when it matured in October 2006. We repaid the remaining $96 of our 6.7% medium-term notes when they matured in 2005.  

SHARE REPURCHASE

 In February 2005, our Board of Directors authorized $500 of share repurchases. Overall for 2005, we purchased 8 shares for $287 at an average price of $33.80 per share. We utilized the remaining authorization of $213 in the first quarter of 2006, purchasing 6 shares at an average price of $39.27 per share.  

Our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1,000 of share repurchases in May 2006. During the remainder of 2006, we repurchased 11 shares for $409 as part of this authorization, at an average price of $36.74.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25   
During the first half of 2007 we repurchased 11 shares for $590 as part of the existing authorization from May 2006, including $300 repurchased as part of an accelerated share repurchase program. In May 2007, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Credit Suisse International to repurchase shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $300. We purchased approximately five million four hundred thousand shares of our common stock on May 23, 2007 at $55.17 per share. Under the terms of the agreement, we received approximately four hundred thousand shares in June 2007 at no additional cost, based on the volume weighted average price of our common stock from June 1, 2007 to June 26, 2007. This resulted in an average price per share of $51.69 for the accelerated share repurchase as a whole.  

In August 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a $1,500 share repurchase program. In November 2007, our Board of Directors authorized an increase of $1,000 to the share repurchase program. During the second half of 2007, we purchased 28 shares for $1,137 at an average price of $41.05, using the remaining $1 on the May 2006 authorization and beginning to use the August and November 2007 authorizations. As of February 2, 2008 the unused authorization was $1,364. Repurchases under the program may be made through the end of 2009. The actual amount and timing of future share repurchases will be subject to market conditions and applicable SEC rules.  

26   
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

 We define Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Deprecation, Amortization and Rent (“EBITDAR”) as follows:  

 Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR =    Adjusted Debt  

     Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (EBITDAR)     

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is a useful measure for investors in evaluating our levels of debt for the periods presented, in addition to being a key measure used by rating agencies. When read in conjunction with our net earnings and debt and compared to debt to net earnings, it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ability to maintain appropriate levels of debt from period to period. Beginning in 2007, we have incorporated Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR into our key financial metrics. We believe that our ability to maintain appropriate levels of debt is best measured by Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR. Our goal is to manage debt levels at approximately 2.0 times Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR. For 2007, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 1.8 compared to 1.1 at the end of 2006. The increase was the result of the $988, net of discount, of notes issued in the fourth quarter of 2007. This measure, however, is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings, or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR reconciliation to GAAP below. The closest GAAP measure is debt to net earnings, which was 3.5 for 2007 and 0.9 for 2006.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 The components of adjusted debt are as of the end of 2007 and 2006, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended February 2, 2008 and

 February 3, 2007.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27   
Off-Balance Sheet Financing and Securitization of Accounts Receivable

 Prior to May 2007, through our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, we offered a private label card and two co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The private label card receivables were held in a trust, which could issue third-party debt that was secured by the private label receivables; the private label program was treated as ‘on-balance sheet.’ Both the receivables, net of bad debt allowance, and any debt were recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. The finance charge income was recorded in finance charges and other, net, and the bad debt expense was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses.  

The co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables were held in a separate trust (the VISA Trust), which could issue third-party debt that was secured by the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. The co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card program was treated as ‘off-balance sheet.’ We recorded the fair value of our interest in the VISA Trust on our consolidated balance sheet, gains on the sale of receivables to the VISA Trust and our share of the VISA Trust’s finance income in finance charges and other, net. As of February 3, 2007, the VISA Trust had co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a total face amount of $908 and had outstanding two series of notes held by third-parties: $200 of 2002 Class A&B notes that matured in April 2007, and $350 of 2004-2 variable funding notes that were paid in April 2007. In fiscal 2006, the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables had an average gross yield of 16.8% and average annual credit losses of 2.8%. The weighted average interest rate on the third-party notes was 5.3%.  

On May 1, 2007, we converted the Nordstrom private label cards and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card programs into one securitization program, which is accounted for as a secured borrowing (on-balance sheet). When we combined the securitization programs, our investment in asset backed securities, which was accounted for as available-for-sale securities, was eliminated and we reacquired all of the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables previously sold to the VISA trust. These reacquired co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. We have transitioned the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivable portfolio to historical cost, net of bad debt allowances, on our consolidated balance sheet as of February 2, 2008.  

On May 1, 2007, the trust issued securities that are backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and 90% of the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Under the securitization, the receivables are transferred to a third-party trust on a daily basis. The balance of the receivables transferred to the trust fluctuates as new receivables are generated and old receivables are retired (through payments received, charge-offs or credits for merchandise returns). These combined receivables back the Series 2007-1 Notes, the Series 2007-2 Notes and an unused variable funding note.  

Our earnings per diluted share were reduced by $0.06 for one-time transitional write-offs associated with bringing the co-branded VISA receivables on balance sheet.  

Interest Rate Swaps

 To manage our interest rate risk, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement in 2003, which had a $250 notional amount expiring in January 2009. Under the agreement, we receive a fixed rate of 5.63% and pay a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a margin of 2.3% set at six-month intervals (5.32% at February 2, 2008). The interest rate swap agreement had a fair value of $1 and $(9) at the end of 2007 and 2006.  

Contractual Obligations

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of February 2, 2008. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of approximately $1,779 as of February 2, 2008, payable over the remaining life of the debts.  

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves, postretirement benefits and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”) reserves. The repayment amounts presented above were determined based on historical payment trends. We expect to pay $1 of uncertain tax positions under FIN 48 in the next 12 months and include this balance in other long-term liabilities as due in less than 1 year. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows for the remaining balance and have excluded this in the table above. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above.  

28   
Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services, our Minimum Purchase Agreement with the Façonnable U.S. wholesale business, and capital expenditure commitments.  

This table also excludes the short-term liabilities, other than the current portion of long-term debt, disclosed on our 2007 consolidated balance sheet, as the amounts recorded for these items will be paid in the next year.  

Credit Capacity and Commitments

 The following table summarizes our amount of commitment expiration per period:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

During the first quarter of 2007, we entered into an agreement for a new variable funding facility (2007-A Variable Funding Note) backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a commitment of $300. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third party bank conduit plus specified fees. During the third quarter of 2007, we used this facility to issue $220 in Notes and paid the outstanding balance during the third and fourth quarters of 2007. We pay a commitment fee for the note based on the size of the commitment and the amount of borrowings outstanding. Commitment fee rates decrease if more than $50 is outstanding on the facility. The facility can be cancelled or not renewed if our debt ratings fall below Standard and Poor’s BB+ rating or Moody’s Ba1 rating. Our current rating by Standard and Poor’s is A-, four grades above BB+, and by Moody’s is Baa1, three grades above Ba1. At year-end, we had no outstanding balance on this variable funding note.  

During the third quarter of 2007, we entered into an agreement for an additional variable funding facility backed by the remaining 10% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables with a commitment of $100. As of February 2, 2008, no issuances have been made against this facility. Borrowings under the facility will incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third party bank conduit plus specified fees.  

During the third quarter of 2007, we entered into a new commercial paper dealer agreement, supported by our unsecured line of credit. Under this commercial paper program, we may issue commercial paper in an aggregate amount outstanding at any particular time not to exceed $500. This agreement allows us to use the proceeds to fund share repurchases as well as operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing our borrowing capacity under the line of credit by an amount equal to the principal amount of the commercial paper. We had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at February 2, 2008.  

We have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the terms of the registration statement, and subject to the filing of certain post-effective amendments, we are authorized to issue an unlimited principal amount of debt securities.  

Debt Ratings

 The following table shows our credit ratings at the date of this report:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These ratings could change depending on our performance and other factors. Our outstanding debt is not subject to termination or interest rate adjustments based on changes in our credit ratings.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29   
Dividends

 In 2007, we paid dividends of $0.54 per share, the eleventh consecutive year that our annual dividends increased. We paid dividends of $0.42 and $0.32 in 2006 and 2005. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, and balance the dividend payment with our operating performance and capital resources. We target a dividend payout ratio of approximately 20% to 25% of net income, an increase from our prior target of 18% to 20%. For the dividend yield, which is calculated as our dividends per share divided by our stock price, we target a 1.3% long-term yield. While we plan to increase dividends over time, we will balance future increases with our operating performance and available capital resources.  

In February 2008, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share, increased from $0.135 per share in the prior year.  

Liquidity

 We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to minimize our need for short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, existing cash and available credit facilities are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months.  

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, strengthen our financial position and maintain flexibility for future strategic initiatives. We continuously assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, principal debt payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions. We believe our operating cash flows, existing cash and available credit facilities, as well as any potential future borrowing facilities, will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the policies we feel are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Inventory

 Our merchandise inventories are primarily stated at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. As our inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain significant management judgments that may significantly affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin. Among others, the significant estimates used in inventory valuation are obsolescence and shrinkage.  

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of net sales for the period from the most recent semi-annual inventory count based on historical shrinkage results. Therefore, our obsolescence reserve and shrinkage percentage contain uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.  

Management does not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In prior years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence and shrinkage reserves. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have impacted net income by approximately $2 for the year ended February 2, 2008. We do not believe a 10% change in our shrink percentage would have a material effect on our net earnings.  

Revenue Recognition

 We recognize revenues net of estimated returns and we exclude sales taxes. Our retail stores record revenue at the point of sale. Our catalog and online sales include shipping revenue and are recorded upon estimated delivery to the customer. As part of the normal sales cycle, we receive customer merchandise returns. To recognize the financial impact of sales returns, we estimate the amount of goods that will be returned and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly. Inherent in establishing and maintaining a sales return reserve are management judgments around customer return patterns and return rates. We utilize historical return patterns to estimate our expected returns and, in prior years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the sales return reserve.  

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $3 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 2, 2008.  

30   
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

 Our allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate of the losses inherent in our Nordstrom private label card and co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date. We evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on several factors, including historical trends of aging of accounts, write-off experience and expectations of future performance. We recognize finance charges on delinquent accounts until the account is written off. Delinquent accounts are written off when they are determined to be uncollectible, usually after the passage of 151 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. Management believes the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card accounts receivable under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above or in general economic conditions could materially change these expectations. In prior years, we have not made material changes to our estimates involved in the allowance for doubtful accounts. A 10% change in our allowance for doubtful accounts would have affected net earnings by $4 for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008.  

Income Taxes

 In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” we calculate income taxes using the asset and liability approach. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and respective tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates currently in effect for the years in which we expect those temporary differences to reverse.  

Inherent in the measurement of deferred balances are certain judgments and interpretations of enacted tax law and published guidance. Our assumptions have been materially accurate in the past. We continuously monitor any changes in enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we have a filing obligation and adjust our deferred tax balances accordingly. We regularly evaluate whether our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the foreseeable future and record a valuation allowance when appropriate.  

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” we regularly evaluate the likelihood of recognizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state, and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances, and information available. For those benefits we believe more likely than not will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our assumptions for these benefits have been materially accurate in the past. A liability for the unrecognized portion of the income tax benefit will carry forward until the effective settlement of the issue on audit, the lapse in the statute of limitations to consider the issue, or a favorable change in law.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

 In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-1 (“FSP FAS 157-1”) and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-2, (“FSP FAS 157-2”), affecting implementation of SFAS 157. FSP FAS 157-1 excludes FASB Statement No. 13, Accounting for Leases (“SFAS 13”), and other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements under SFAS 13, from the scope of SFAS 157. FSP FAS 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. For all other items, SFAS 157 was effective for Nordstrom as of February 3, 2008. We have adopted SFAS 157 as amended by FSP FAS 157-1 and FSP FAS 157-2 as of February 3, 2008. This adoption will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS 159 was effective for Nordstrom as of February 3, 2008. We did not apply the fair value option to any of our outstanding instruments; therefore, SFAS 159 will have no effect on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141(R)”). SFAS 141(R) will significantly change the accounting for business combinations. Under

 SFAS 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific acquisition-related items, including expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred, valuing noncontrolling interests (minority interests) at fair value at the acquisition date, and expensing restructuring costs associated with an acquired business.

 SFAS 141(R) also includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements. SFAS 141(R) is to be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. Generally, the effect of SFAS 141(R) will depend on future acquisitions.  

Also in December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51 (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interest (minority interest) in a subsidiary, provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of the deconsolidation of a subsidiary, and increases transparency through expanded disclosures. Specifically, SFAS 160 requires the recognition of minority interest as equity in the consolidated financial statements and separate from the parent company’s equity. It also requires consolidated net earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings to include the amount of net earnings attributable to minority interest. This statement will be effective for Nordstrom as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. We are presently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 160 and believe there will be no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31   
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.