Item 7 for a reconciliation of net income to FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units. 

(2) The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as measures of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies. 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company’s ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries other than entities owning interests in the Partially Owned Properties - Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company’s management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management’s control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following: 

· We intend to actively acquire and develop multifamily properties for rental operations and/or conversion into condominiums, as well as upgrade and sell existing properties as individual condominiums. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired or development property up to standards established for its intended market position. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase prices for multifamily properties or decrease the price at which we expect to sell individual properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We also plan to develop more properties ourselves in addition to co-investing with our development partners for either the rental or condominium market, depending on opportunities in each sub-market. This may increase the overall level of risk associated with our developments. The total number of development units, cost of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation; 

32 

· Sources of capital to the Company or labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development are more expensive than anticipated; 

· Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction of multifamily housing, slow employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single-family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company’s control; and 

· Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Risk Factors”. 

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in Notes 5 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. 

Results of Operations 

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company has continued to invest or recycle its capital investment in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. In summary, we: 

Year Ended December 31, 2007: 

· Acquired $1.7 billion of apartment properties consisting of 36 properties and 8,167 units, and $212.8 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and 

· Sold $1.9 billion of apartment properties consisting of 73 properties and 21,563 units, as well as 617 condominium units for $164.2 million and $50.0 million of land parcels. 

Year Ended December 31, 2006: 

· Acquired $1.8 billion of apartment properties consisting of 35 properties and 8,768 units, and $134.4 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and 

· Sold $2.3 billion of apartment properties consisting of 335 properties and 39,608 units, as well as 1,069 condominium units for $216.0 million and $1.6 million of land parcels. 

On June 28, 2006, the Company announced that it agreed to sell its Lexford Housing Division for a cash purchase price of $1.086 billion. The sale closed on October 5, 2006. The Lexford Housing Division results are classified as discontinued operations, net of minority interests, in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. The Company recorded a gain on sale of approximately $418.7 million on the sale of the Lexford Housing Division in the fourth quarter of 2006. In conjunction with the Lexford disposition, the Company paid off/extinguished $196.3 million of mortgage notes payable secured by the properties and incurred approximately $9.2 million in prepayment penalties upon extinguishment. 

The Company’s primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company’s apartment communities. 

Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2007 and 2006 (the “2007 Same Store Properties”), which represented 115,857 units, impacted the Company’s results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2006 and 2005 (the “2006 Same Store Properties”), which 

33 

represented 128,133 units, also impacted the Company’s results of operations. Both the 2007 Same Store Properties and 2006 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs. 

The Company’s acquisition, disposition, completed development and consolidation of previously unconsolidated property activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The impacts of these activities are also discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs. 

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006 

For the year ended December 31, 2007, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, increased by approximately $41.1 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below. 

Revenues from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $67.2 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $12.6 million primarily due to higher payroll, building, utility costs, insurance and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2007 Same Store Properties: 

  2007 vs. 2006   

  Year over Year Same Store Results/Statistics   

  $ in Thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) — 115,857 Same Store Units    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period. 

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations to NOI for the 2007 Same Store Properties. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2007 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2008, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2008: 

34 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These 2008 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking. 

Non-same store operating results increased $106.1 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2007 and 2006 as well as operations from completed development properties and our corporate housing business. 

See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures. 

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased $0.6 million primarily as a result of an increase in property management fees from unconsolidated entities along with a decrease in asset management expenses from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company managed 14,472 units and 15,020 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing venture at Fort Lewis. 

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses decreased by approximately $8.8 million or 9.1%. This decrease is primarily attributable to lower overall payroll costs, various reserve adjustments for workers compensation and medical costs and lower training costs associated with the completion of a majority of the rollout of a new property management system, partially offset by higher legal and professional fees. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $80.1 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned. 

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $0.8 million between the periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to an increase in restricted share expense and severance costs associated with the resignation of two of the Company’s executives as well as less expense recovery related to a certain lawsuit in Florida (see Note 21), partially offset by a decrease in profit sharing and state and franchise taxes. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $48.0 million to $50.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. 

Impairment from continuing operations decreased $32.6 million primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million taken in 2006 related to the corporate housing business. In addition, in 2006 the Company wrote-off $2.0 million of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets. 

Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased approximately $10.8 million primarily as a result of $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions along with $3.7 million in proceeds from eBay’s acquisition of Rent.com received during the year ended December 31, 2006. This was partially offset by $4.1 million received in 2007 for insurance litigation settlement proceeds, a $2.7 million increase in interest earned on 1031 exchange and earnest money deposits and a $0.7 million increase in interest earned on short-term investments. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $5.0 million to $10.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. 

35 

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.4 million primarily as a result of higher overall debt levels outstanding due to the Company’s share repurchase activity as well as the timing of acquisitions and dispositions, partially offset by lower overall effective interest rates. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $45.1 million as compared to $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 5.96% as compared to 6.21% for the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company anticipates that interest expense (including discontinued operations) will approximate $470.0 million to $490.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. 

Income from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.0 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to the sale of the Company’s 7.075% ownership interest in Wellsford Park Highlands Corporation, an entity which owns a condominium development in Denver, Colorado and profit participation received from the sale of condominium units at a development project that was sold in 2003. 

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased $2.3 million primarily as a result of a $2.6 million gain on the sale of an unconsolidated institutional joint venture property during the year ended December 31, 2007. 

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased $3.6 million primarily as a result of higher net gains realized in 2007 on the sales of land parcels compared to the net gains realized in 2006. 

Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $124.3 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to a significant decrease in the number of properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, as well as the mix of properties sold in each year. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2006 to the year ended December 31, 2005 

For the year ended December 31, 2006, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, decreased by approximately $54.6 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below. 

Revenues from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $88.7 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2006 Same Store Properties increased $23.9 million primarily due to higher maintenance, payroll, utility costs and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2006 Same Store Properties: 

  2006 vs. 2005   

  Year over Year Same Store Results/Statistics   

  $ in Thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) – 128,133 Same Store Units    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period. 

36 

Non-same store operating results increased $151.0 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2006 and 2005 as well as our corporate housing business. 

See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures. 

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses decreased $1.5 million primarily as a result of lower income earned from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company managed 15,020 units and 16,269 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing venture at Fort Lewis. 

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased by approximately $9.3 million or 10.7%. This increase is primarily attributable to higher overall payroll costs and higher overall computer and training costs specific to the Company’s rollout of a new property management system. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $119.4 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned. 

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, decreased approximately $21.9 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease was primarily due to lower executive compensation expense due to severance costs for several executive officers incurred during the year ended December 31, 2005 and a $2.8 million reimbursement of legal expenses during the year ended December 31, 2006. 

Impairment from continuing operations increased $33.4 million primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million related to the corporate housing business and $2.0 million related to the write-off of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets. 

Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased by approximately $37.4 million, primarily as a result of the $57.1 million in cash received during the year ended December 31, 2005 for the Company’s ownership interest in Rent.com, which was acquired by eBay, Inc. This was partially offset by the $3.7 million in additional proceeds for Rent.com, an increase in interest earned on tax deferred 1031 exchange proceeds from the Lexford disposition and $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions received during the year ended December 31, 2006. 

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.9 million primarily as a result of higher variable interest rates and overall debt levels outstanding. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $20.7 million as compared to $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.21% as compared to 6.16% for the year ended December 31, 2005. 

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.1 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of consolidating previously unconsolidated properties as of January 1, 2006 as the result of EITF Issue No. 04-5. 

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased $1.0 million due to increased unconsolidated sales during the year ended December 31, 2005. 

37 

Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased $27.5 million due to a large gain recorded on the sale of one land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2005. 

Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, increased approximately $265.6 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily the result of lower real estate net book values for properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 

As of January 1, 2007, the Company had approximately $260.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $470.7 million available under its revolving credit facilities (net of $69.3 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2007 was approximately $50.8 million and the amount available on the Company’s revolving credit facilities was $1.3 billion (net of $80.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing). 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following: 

· Disposed of 78 properties, various individual condominium units and two land parcels, receiving net proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion; 

· Obtained $346.1 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $350.0 million of five-year 5.50% fixed rate public notes; 

· Obtained $640.6 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $650.0 million of ten-year 5.75% fixed rate public notes and terminated five forward starting swaps designated to hedge the note issuance, receiving net proceeds of $2.4 million; 

· Obtained a three-year (subject to two one-year extension options) $500.0 million floating rate term loan at LIBOR plus a spread (currently 42.5 basis points) dependent upon the current credit rating on the Operating Partnership’s long-term unsecured debt; 

· Obtained $827.8 million in new mortgage financing; and 

· Issued approximately 1.2 million Common Shares and received net proceeds of $35.9 million. 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to: 

· Invest $480.2 million primarily in development projects; 

· Acquire 36 properties and eight land parcels, utilizing cash of $1.7 billion; 

· Repurchase 27.5 million Common Shares utilizing cash of $1.2 billion; 

· Repay $548.0 million of mortgage loans; 

· Repay $150.0 million of fixed rate public notes; and 

· Redeem the Series D Preferred Shares at a liquidation value of $175.0 million. 

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions, and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, the Company may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share buyback program authorized by the Board of Trustees. On April 27, May 24 and December 3, 2007, the Board of Trustees approved an increase of $200.1 million, an additional $500.0 million and an additional $500.0 million, respectively, to the Company’s authorized share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2007 and after giving effect to the above increases, the Company had authorization to repurchase an additional $475.6 million of its shares. The Company repurchased $1.2 billion (27,484,346 shares at an average price per share of $44.62) of its Common Shares during the year ended December 31, 2007. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

38 

 The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2007, are as follows: 

Debt Summary as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

39 

Debt Maturity Schedule as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2007. 

(2) Includes the Company’s $500.0 million floating rate term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company. 

(3) Includes $650.0 million of 3.85% convertible unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021. 

(4) Includes $139.0 million outstanding on the Company’s $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, which matures on February 28, 2012. 

40 

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2007: 

Unsecured Debt Summary as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Notes are private. All other unsecured debt is public. 

(2) $150.0 million in fair value interest rate swaps converts 50% of the 4.750% Notes due June 15, 2009 to a floating interest rate. 

(3) Convertible notes mature on August 15, 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021. 

(4) Represents the Company’s $500.0 million term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company. 

(5) Represents amount outstanding on the Company’s $15 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which matures on February 28, 2012. 

 As of February 27, 2008, an unlimited amount of debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in June 2006 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on  

41 

June 29, 2009 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount). As of February 27, 2008, $956.5 million in equity securities remains available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in February 1998. 

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all OP Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) the “Common Share Equivalent” of all convertible preferred shares and preference interests/units; and (iii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding. 

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Convertible Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Perpetual Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2007 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, generally through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities. The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the 

42 

issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties as well as joint ventures. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $18.3 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2007, $12.0 billion or 65.5%, was unencumbered. 

 The Operating Partnership’s senior debt credit ratings from Standard & Poors (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch are A-, Baal and A-, respectively. The Company’s preferred equity ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are BBB+, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively. 

 The Operating Partnership has a long-term revolving credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $1.5 billion which matures in February 2012. This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term liquidity requirements. As of February 25, 2008, $40.0 million was outstanding under this facility. 

 See Note 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2007. 

 Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate 

 Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories: 

· Replacements (inside the unit). These include: 

· flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl, linoleum or tile; 

· appliances; 

· mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc; 

· furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and 

· blinds/shades. 

All replacements are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual units and the repair of any replacement item noted above. 

· Building improvements (outside the unit). These include: 

· roof replacement and major repairs; 

· paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks; 

· amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices; 

· major building mechanical equipment systems; 

· interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding; 

· major landscaping and grounds improvement; and 

· vehicles and office and maintenance equipment. 

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset. 

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $252.7 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts): 

43 

Capitalized Improvements to Real Estate 

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Total units exclude 10,446 unconsolidated units and 3,731 military housing (fee managed) units. 

(2) Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2005. 

(3) Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2005, 2006 and 2007. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 25,406 units. 

(4) Includes properties either partially owned or sold during the period, commercial space, corporate housing, condominium conversions and $22.2 million included in building improvements spent on twenty-six specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets. 

 For the year ended December 31, 2006, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $255.2 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts): 

Capitalized Improvements to Real Estate 

For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Total units exclude 10,846 unconsolidated units and 3,555 military housing (fee managed) units. 

(2) Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2004. 

(3) Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2004, 2005 and 2006. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 27,346 units. 

(4) Includes properties either Partially Owned or sold during the period, commercial space, condominium conversions and $21.4 million included in building improvements spent on seventeen specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets. 

 The Company expects to fund approximately $104.0 million for capital expenditures for replacements and building improvements for all established properties, exclusive of condominium conversion properties, in 2008. This includes an average of approximately $1,000 per unit for capital improvements for established properties. 

 During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $7.7 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $3.7 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2008. 

 Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities. 

44 

 Derivative Instruments 

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments. 

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives. 

 See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2007. 

 Other 

 Minority Interests as of December 31, 2007 decreased by $53.4 million when compared to December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of the following: 

· Distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $35.2 million (excluding Junior Preference Unit and Preference Interest distributions); 

· The allocation of income from operations to holders of OP Units in the amount of $65.2 million; 

· The conversion of 230,000 Series J Preference Interests with a liquidation value of $11.5 million into Common Shares; and 

· The conversion of 1.5 million OP Units into Common Shares valued at $32.4 million. 

Total distributions paid in January 2008 amounted to $141.6 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007. 

45 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

 The Company has co-invested in various properties that are unconsolidated and accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Management does not believe these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company’s liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its property management and ownership activities. During 2000 and 2001, the Company entered into institutional ventures with an unaffiliated partner. At the respective closing dates, the Company sold and/or contributed 45 properties containing 10,846 units to these ventures and retained a 25% ownership interest in the ventures. The Company’s joint venture partner contributed cash equal to 75% of the agreed-upon equity value of the properties comprising the ventures, which was then distributed to the Company. The Company’s strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its concentration of properties in a variety of markets. See also Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the sale of one of these properties containing 400 units. 

 As of December 31, 2007, the Company has 13 projects totaling 4,185 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2010. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 18 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities. 

 The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2007: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Amounts include aggregate principal payments only. The Company paid $502,807, $465,388 and $397,886 for interest on debt, 

 inclusive of derivative instruments, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

(b) Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for two properties. 

(c) Estimated payments to the Company’s Chairman, two former CEO’s and its former chief operating officer based on planned 

 retirement dates. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

 The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2007 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2006. 

 The Company has identified six significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The six critical accounting policies are: 

46 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill 

 The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions, expected holding period of each asset and legal and environmental concerns. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted. 

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate 

 The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations. 

Cost Capitalization 

 See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property. 

 The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects, for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction in progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovation at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments 

 The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107 and SFAS No. 133 and its amendments (SFAS Nos. 137/138/149) requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments. 

Revenue Recognition 

 Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis. Leases entered into between a resident and a property for the rental of an apartment unit are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis. Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis. 

Share-Based Compensation 

 The Company accounts for its share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (R), 

47 

Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006, which results in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the share compensation granted. 

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company’s use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy. Because the Company’s share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management’s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different. 

Funds From Operations 

For the year ended December 31, 2007, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $7.3 million, or 1.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units decreased $68.5 million, or 8.7%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. 

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2007: 

Funds From Operations 

(Amounts in thousands) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property. FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units is  

48 

calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Minority Interests - Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests - Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. 

(2) The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as measures of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk