Item 1. BUSINESS 

We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product portfolio comprises 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit PIC® microcontrollers and 16-bit dsPIC® digital signal controllers, which feature on-board Flash (reprogrammable) memory technology. In addition, we offer a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, RF, safety and security, and interface devices, as well as serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Parallel Flash memories. We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products. Our synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified. 

Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. 

Our Internet address is www.microchip.com. We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: 

      ·   our annual report on Form 10-K    

      ·   our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q    

      ·   our current reports on Form 8-K    

      ·   our proxy statement    

      ·   any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934    

All SEC filings on our website are available free of charge. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. 

Industry Background 

Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to: 

      ·   differentiate their products    

      ·   replace less efficient electromechanical control devices    

      ·   reduce the number of components in their system    

      ·   add product functionality    

      ·   reduce the system level energy consumption    

      ·   decrease time to market for their products    

      ·   significantly reduce product cost    

Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: 

      ·   automotive comfort, safety and entertainment applications    

      ·   remote control devices    

      ·   handheld tools    

      ·   home appliances    

      ·   portable computers    

      ·   robotics    

3  

      ·   accessories    

      ·   cordless and cellular telephones    

      ·   motor controls    

      ·   security systems    

      ·   educational and entertainment devices    

      ·   consumer electronics    

      ·   power supplies    

      ·   touch screens    

      ·   medical products    

Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers, non-volatile memory components such as EEPROMs, Flash memory and various analog and interface products. 

The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the larger segments of the semiconductor market at approximately $15 billion in calendar year 2010. Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures. 4-bit microcontrollers are the smallest segment of the microcontroller market and have been in decline for several years. 8-bit microcontrollers remain very cost-effective for a wide range of high-volume embedded control applications and, as a result, continue to represent the largest portion of the overall microcontroller market. 16-bit and 32-bit microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. 

Our Products 

Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including: 

      ·   microcontrollers    

      ·   development tools    

      ·   analog and interface products    

      ·   memory products    

  ·     technology licensing    

We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power, low voltage operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. 

Microcontrollers 

We offer a broad family of proprietary microcontroller products marketed under the PIC brand name. We believe that our PIC product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market. We have shipped over 9 billion PIC microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our PIC products are designed for applications requiring field programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of memory technology configurations, low voltage, extreme low power, small footprint and ease of use. Our performance results from a product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a Reduced Instruction Set Computer, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single-bus, Complex Instruction Set Computer architectures, referred to as CISC. With over 790 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontroller markets. 

Digital Signal Controllers (DSC) are a subset of our 16-bit microcontroller offering. Our dsPIC DSC families integrate the control features of high-performance 16-bit microcontrollers with the computation capabilities of Digital Signal Processors (DSPs), along with a wide variety of peripheral functions making them suitable for a large number of embedded control applications. Our dsPIC product family offers a broad suite of hardware and software development tools, software application libraries, development boards and reference designs to ease and expedite the customer application development cycle. With its field-reprogrammability, large selection of peripheral functions, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC DSCs expand our addressable market. 

4  

We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC family of microcontroller products. Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low-cost user programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings.  

Development Tools 

We offer a comprehensive set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC microcontroller and dsPIC DSC for specific applications and, we believe, are a key factor for obtaining design wins. 

Our family of development tools for PIC and dsPIC products range from entry-level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation capability. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC devices since all of our PIC and dsPIC development tools share the same integrated development environment. 

Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our standard microcontroller product architecture. Currently, there are approximately 200 third-party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture. 

We believe that familiarity with and adoption of both our and third-party development tools by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we have shipped more than 1,000,000 development tools. 

Analog and Interface Products 

Our analog and interface products consist of several families with approximately 730 power management, linear, mixed-signal, thermal management, RF Linear drivers, safety and security, and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2011, our mixed-signal analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 17,500 end customers. 

We market and sell our analog and interface products into our microcontroller customer base, to customers who use microcontrollers from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not fit our traditional PIC microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and all of our products, based on an application segment approach targeted to provide customers with application solutions. 

Memory Products 

Our memory products consist of serial electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (referred to as Serial EEPROMs), Serial Flash Memories, Parallel Flash Memories and Serial SRAM memories. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Serial SRAM have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded control market, complementing our microcontroller offerings. 

Technology Licensing 

Our technology licensing business from our acquisition of SST, includes license fees and royalties associated with SST's technology licenses for the use of SuperFlash technology and fees for engineering services. We license the  

SuperFlash®  technology to foundries, IDMs and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced microcontroller products.  

Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin. 

5 

Our manufacturing facilities are located in: 

      ·   Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)    

      ·   Chandler, Arizona (probe operations)    

      ·   Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4)    

      ·   Bangkok, Thailand (assembly, probe and test)    

Wafer Fabrication 

Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes from 0.35 to 5.0 microns. During fiscal 2011, Fab 2 operated at or above normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be in the range of 90% to 95% of the actual capacity of the installed equipment. Fab 2's capacity to support more advanced technologies was increased during fiscal 2011 by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment as required. 

Fab 4 currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.22 to 0.5 micron manufacturing processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns. Similar to Fab 2, during fiscal 2011, Fab 4 was operating at or above normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be in the range of 90% to 95% of the actual capacity of the installed equipment. The capacity of Fab 4 to support our most advanced technology and support new technology development was increased during fiscal 2011 by starting up more of the tools we acquired when we purchased Fab 4 in fiscal 2003 and installing new tools. A significant amount of additional clean room capacity and equipment acquired with Fab 4 can be brought on line in the future to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand over the next several years with modest incremental capital expenditures. 

We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. 

We have, in recent years, outsourced a portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries to augment our internal manufacturing capabilities. As a result of our acquisition of SST in fiscal 2011, we have become more reliant on outside wafer foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements than we have in past periods. In fiscal 2011, approximately 20 percent of our sales came from product that was produced at outside wafer foundries. 

Assembly and Test 

We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. As of March 31, 2011, approximately 61% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility. As of March 31, 2011, approximately 88% of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand facility. We use third-party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. During fiscal 2011, consistent with favorable business conditions, we operated at normal capacity levels and selectively increased our probe, assembly and test capacity at our Thailand facility. 

General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations 

We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller, analog and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic, analog and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for our microcontroller, analog, and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer aided design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. 

Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and our effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. 

6 

Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work-in-process and finished goods inventory. 

At the end of fiscal 2011, we owned identifiable long-lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment) in the United States with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $330.0 million and $210.5 million in other countries, including $193.7 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2010, we owned identifiable long-lived assets in the United States with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $333.0 million and $160.0 million in other countries, including $147.7 million in Thailand. 

Research and Development (R&D) 

We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the development of microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, Serial EEPROM memory, NOR FLASH Memory, Embedded FLASH technologies, RF products, analog and interface products, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing design and process technologies to enable products and innovative features as well as achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. 

In fiscal 2011, our R&D expenses were $170.6 million, compared to $120.8 million in fiscal 2010 and $115.5 million in fiscal 2009. R&D expenses included share-based compensation expense of $12.9 million in fiscal 2011, $12.2 million in fiscal 2010 and $10.9 million in fiscal 2009. 

Sales and Distribution 

General 

We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. 

Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world. 

Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees.  

Distribution 

Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. 

In fiscal 2011, we derived 58% of our net sales through distributors and 42% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by Microchip. In fiscal 2010, we derived 61% of our net sales through distributors and 39% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by Microchip. In fiscal 2009, we derived 64% of our net sales through distributors and 36% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by Microchip. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2009. 

We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may each terminate our relationship with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. 

7 

Sales by Geography 

Sales by geography for fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, approximately 77% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and approximately 75% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. The primary reason our sales to customers in Asia increased in fiscal 2011 compared to prior periods was due to our acquisition of SST whose sales were more heavily weighted to Asian customers compared to the rest of our business. Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America. 

Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. Sales to customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2009. 

Our international sales are substantially all U.S. dollar denominated. Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties to date as a result of export restrictions. 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. In recent periods, global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 

Backlog 

As of April 30, 2011, our backlog was approximately $544.9 million, compared to $527.6 million as of April 30, 2010. Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months. 

We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a relatively short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customer's option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period. 

Competition 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China, Korea and Taiwan. We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis. 

8 

We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: 

      ·   speed    

      ·   functionality    

      ·   density    

      ·   low power consumption    

      ·   reliability    

      ·   packaging alternatives    

We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: 

      ·   ease of use    

      ·   functionality of application development systems    

      ·   dependable delivery, quality and availability    

      ·   technical and innovative service and support    

      ·   price    

We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. 

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks 

We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2011 and 2029. We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While we intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful intellectual property protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, pursuing violations of our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex business area involving patent law, trademark law, copyright law and the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. 

We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that all licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and require significant attention from management, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. 

Environmental Regulation 

We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use and disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities. 

Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2011, we had 6,970 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. 

9 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2011: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. Since May 2004, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of Xyratex Ltd., a storage and network technology company. Since May 2007, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology). 

Mr. Moorthy has served as Chief Operating Officer since June 2008, as Executive Vice President since October 2006 and as a Vice President in various roles since he joined Microchip in 2001. Prior to this time, he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Mumbai, India. 

Mr. Bjornholt has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2009. He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995. Mr. Bjornholt holds a Masters degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of Arizona. 

Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the Security, Microcontroller, and Technology Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. 

Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1989 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. 

Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. He has been employed by Microchip since 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since September 1993. Mr. Little holds a B.S. degree in Engineering Technology from United Electronics Institute. 

Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles. Joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. 

  Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS