PART I

Item 1.Business.

CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the “Company” or “CBS Corp.”) is a mass media company with operations in the following segments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2015, contributions to the Company’s consolidated revenues from its segments were as follows: Entertainment 61%, Cable Networks 16%, Publishing 6% and Local Broadcasting 19%. The Company generated approximately 14% of its total revenues from international regions in 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 52% and 14% of total international revenues of approximately $2.00 billion were generated in Europe and Canada, respectively.

The Company operates businesses which span the media and entertainment industries, including the CBS Television Network, cable networks, content production and distribution, television and radio stations, Internet-based businesses, and consumer publishing. The Company’s principal strategy is to create and acquire premium content that is widely accepted by audiences, and to generate both advertising and non‑advertising revenues from the distribution of this content on multiple media platforms and to various geographic locations. The Company continues to increase its investment in both Company-owned and acquired premium content to enhance its opportunities for revenue growth, which include exhibiting its content on digital and other platforms through licensing and subscription services, including the Company’s owned digital streaming content offerings; expanding the distribution of its content internationally; and securing compensation from multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), including cable, direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”), telephone company, and other distributors, for authorizing the MVPDs’ carriage of the Company’s owned television stations (also known as “retransmission fees”) and cable networks, and securing compensation from television stations affiliated with the CBS Television Network (“station affiliation fees” also known as “reverse compensation”). The Company also seeks to grow its advertising revenues by monetizing all content viewership as industry measurements evolve to reflect viewers’ changing habits.

On July 16, 2014, the Company completed the disposition of CBS Outdoor Americas Inc. (“Outdoor Americas”), which was previously a subsidiary of the Company and has been renamed OUTFRONT Media Inc. During 2013, the Company completed the sale of its outdoor advertising business in Europe (“Outdoor Europe”). Outdoor Americas and Outdoor Europe have been presented as discontinued operations in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.

I-1

The Company competes with many different entities and media in various markets worldwide. In addition to competition in each of its businesses, the Company competes for opportunities in the entertainment business with other diversified entertainment companies such as The Walt Disney Company, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., Time Warner Inc., Cumulus Media Inc. and iHeartMedia, Inc.

As of December 31, 2015, National Amusements, Inc. (“NAI”), a closely held corporation that owns and operates approximately 947 movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and South America and manages 4 movie screens in South America, directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.5% of the Company’s voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 8.5% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. Owners of the Company’s Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. The Company’s Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

On February 2, 2016, Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, resigned from his position as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Redstone remains a director of the Company. On February 3, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors elected Leslie Moonves, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and appointed Mr. Redstone to the position of Chairman Emeritus of the Company's Board.

The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986. The Company’s principal offices are located at 51 W. 52nd Street, New York, New York 10019. Its telephone number is (212) 975-4321 and its Website address is www.cbscorporation.com.

CBS CORP. BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Entertainment (61%, 60% and 62% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and 46%, 44% and 53% of the Company's total segment operating income in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively)

The Entertainment segment consists of the CBS Television Network; CBS Television Studios and CBS Global Distribution Group (composed of CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution), the Company’s television production and syndication operations; CBS Interactive, the Company’s online content networks for information and entertainment; and CBS Films, the Company’s producer and distributor of theatrical motion pictures.

Television Network. The CBS Television Network through CBS Entertainment™, CBS News® and CBS Sports® distributes a comprehensive schedule of news and public affairs broadcasts, sports and entertainment programming to more than 200 domestic affiliates reaching throughout the U.S., including 16 of the Company’s owned and operated television stations, and to affiliated stations in certain U.S. territories.

The CBS Television Network primarily derives revenues from the sale of advertising time for its network broadcasts. A significant portion of the advertising spots sold for the network’s non-sports programming occurs annually generally during May through July in the industry’s upfront advertising market for the upcoming television broadcast season, which runs for one year generally commencing in mid-September. Advertisers purchase the remaining advertising spots closer to the broadcast of the related programming in the scatter advertising market. Overall advertising revenue for the network is also impacted by audience ratings for its programming. The Company offers dynamic advertising insertions for the CBS Television Network's on demand programming which allow the Company to change advertisements at any time within such programming and offer advertisers greater audience reach. In addition, the CBS Television Network’s revenues include station affiliation fees. 

CBS Entertainment is responsible for acquiring or developing and scheduling the entertainment programming presented on the CBS Television Network, which includes primetime comedy and drama series, reality‑based programming, specials, children’s programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late-night programs. CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Television Network and the CBS Radio Network™ with 

I-2

regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes, 48 Hours Mystery, CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley, CBS This Morning, CBS Sunday Morning and Face the Nation as well as special reports. CBS News also provides CBS Newspath®, a television news syndication service that offers daily news coverage, sports highlights and news features to the CBS Television Network affiliates and other subscribers worldwide. CBS Sports broadcasts on the television network include The NFL Today, certain PGA Tour Golf Tournaments, the Masters, the PGA Championship and certain games from the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament, regular-season college football, including the Southeastern Conference, and regular-season college basketball games, in addition to the NFL’s American Football Conference (AFC) regular-season, post-season divisional playoff and championship games. CBS broadcast certain AFC games in the 2015 season as part of its rights under its NFL agreement to broadcast the AFC package from the 2014 through the 2022 seasons, which also includes certain National Football Conference regular season games and the Super Bowls in 2016, 2019 and 2022. The Company produced and broadcast Thursday Night Football for the 2015 season under its January 2015 agreement with the NFL. The Company also will produce and broadcast certain Thursday Night Football games for the 2016 and 2017 seasons under its January 2016 agreement with the NFL, which is subject to NFL approval. CBS Television Network content also is exhibited via the Internet, including through CBS.com™; CBS All Access®, the Company’s digital streaming subscription service launched in October 2014; and CBSN®, the Company’s live digital streaming advertiser-supported news network available 24 hours a day, seven days a week launched in November 2014. CBS All Access and CBSN are available at CBS.com and CBSNews.com™, respectively, and through CBS software applications (“apps”) on multiple digital platforms, including Android, iOS and Windows 8 mobile platforms, and Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and Xbox connected device platforms. Furthering the Company’s analytic tools regarding television advertising and ratings, in 2015 the Company announced “Campaign Performance Audit™,” a data-driven approach for analyzing and buying advertising time on broadcast television which helps advertising customers enhance consumer targeting and measure the effectiveness of their advertising.

The CW, a broadcast network and the Company’s 50/50 joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, airs programming, including The Vampire Diaries, Jane the Virgin and Reign. Eight of the Company’s owned television stations are affiliates of The CW. Certain of The CW’s programming is streamed on video-on-demand services owned by each of Hulu, LLC and Netflix, Inc. pursuant to license agreements.

Television Production and Syndication. CBS Television Studios and CBS Global Distribution Group produce, acquire and/or distribute programming worldwide, including series, specials, news and public affairs, and generate revenue principally from the licensing and distribution of such programming. The programming is produced primarily for broadcast on network television, exhibition on basic cable and premium subscription services or distribution via first‑run syndication. First-run syndication is programming exhibited on television stations without prior exhibition on a network or cable service. The Company subsequently distributes programming after its initial exhibition on a network, basic cable network or premium subscription service for domestic exhibition on television stations, cable networks or video-on-demand services (known as “off-network syndicated programming”). Off-network syndicated programming and first‑run syndicated programming distributed domestically, as well as programming distributed internationally, can sometimes be sold in successive cycles of sales known as “first cycle,” “second cycle” sales, and so on, which may occur on exclusive or non-exclusive bases. Generally, license fees may decrease with successive sales cycles due to increased program exhibitions.

Programming that was produced or co-produced by the Company’s production group and is broadcast on network television includes, among others, NCIS (CBS), The Good Wife (CBS), Madam Secretary (CBS), Scorpion (CBS), Criminal Minds (CBS) and Jane the Virgin (The CW). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for broadcast on the network in the U.S. during a license period. Remaining distribution rights, including international and/or off‑network syndication rights, are typically retained by the Company or, in the case of co-productions, distribution rights are shared with the co-producer for U.S. or international markets. The network license fee for a series episode is normally lower than the costs of producing the episode; however, the Company’s objective is to recoup its costs and earn a profit through various forms of distribution, including international licensing, domestic syndication and digital streaming of episodes. Generally, international sales of network series are made within one year of the U.S. network run and series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic off-network syndication; however, increasingly, these time frames are being shortened, particularly for 

I-3

sales to digital streaming services. In off-network syndication, the Company distributes series, such as Hawaii Five-O, Criminal Minds, Blue Bloods, The Good Wife, Elementary, NCIS and NCIS: Los Angeles, as well as a library of older television programs. The Company also produces and/or distributes first-run syndicated series such as Wheel of Fortune, Jeopardy!, Entertainment Tonight, Inside Edition, The Insider, Dr. Phil, The Doctors, Rachael Ray, Hot Bench and Judge Judy. The Company also distributes syndicated and other programming internationally.

The Company continues to monetize its content through digital media. It enters into and renews numerous multi-year licensing agreements for distribution of certain of its programming to various services, including the digital streaming on subscription video-on-demand services owned by Netflix (in the U.S, Canada and countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America), Amazon (in the U.S., Germany and U.K.), Comcast, Hulu, Hulu Plus (each, in the U.S.), Bell Media, Shomi (each, in Canada), Canal Play (in France), DLA (in countries in Latin America and the Caribbean), Foxtel, Stan Entertainment (each, in Australia), iFlix (in Malaysia, Thailand and Philippines), Nippon TV (in Japan), PlayCo (in the Middle East), MultiChoice Africa (in sub-Saharan Africa), Sky TV NZ, Telecom NZ (each, in New Zealand), Telefonica (in Spain), Watchever (in Germany), among others; digital streaming on advertising supported video-on-demand services, such as PPTV (in China); Sony’s broadband pay television service, PlayStation Vue (in the U.S.); and the digital downloading on various electronic-sell-through services owned by Amazon (in the U.S., Germany and the U.K.), Apple (in the U.S., Canada, Australia and countries in Europe), Google and Microsoft (each, in the U.S.), among others.

Fees for television programming licensed for syndication and digital streaming are recorded as revenues at the beginning of the license period in which the programs are made available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuations in the Entertainment segment’s operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such license agreements were $847 million and $1.02 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.

The Company has a global channel presence through domestic and international joint ventures. The Company owns a 50% interest in a joint venture with Lionsgate, which owns and operates the entertainment cable network, Pop™. The Company owns a 49% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of AMC Networks Inc., which owns and operates six channels in the U.K. and Ireland, including CBS Action™, CBS Drama™, CBS Reality™ and Horror Channel™. The Company also owns a 30% interest in a joint venture with another subsidiary of AMC Networks, which owns and operates nine cable and satellite channels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa broadcasting CBS programming and branded as CBS Action™, CBS Drama™, CBS Reality™ and CBS Europa™. In Australia, the Company owns an approximately 33% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of Ten Network Holdings Limited to provide content to ELEVEN™, a digital television channel service. The Company owns a 30% interest in a joint venture with RTL Group, which owns and operates two cable channels in Southeast Asia in English and local languages, RTL CBS Entertainment™ and RTL CBS Extreme™.

CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive is one of the leading global publishers of premium content on the Internet, delivering this content via Web properties, mobile properties and CBS apps on mobile, as well as Internet-connected television and other device platform apps. CBS Interactive was ranked among the top Internet properties in the world according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2015. CBS Interactive’s leading brands, including CNET®, CBS.com™, CBSSports.com™, GameSpot®, TVGuide.com™, TV.com™, CBSNews.com™, ZDNet®, Last.fm®, and MetroLyrics.com®, among others, serve targeted audiences with text, video, audio, and mobile content spanning technology, entertainment, sports, news, business, gaming and music categories. In addition to its U.S.‑based business, CBS Interactive operates in Asia, Australia and Europe. CBS Interactive’s worldwide brands reached approximately 254 million unique monthly visitors during December 2015 according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2015.

CBS Interactive generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising and sponsorships, in addition to fees derived from search and commerce partners, licensing fees, subscriptions, e-commerce activities, and other paid services. Advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic conditions. In addition, online marketing spending follows seasonal consumer behavior throughout the calendar year to reflect trends during the calendar year.

I-4

CBS Interactive owns and operates digital properties, including: CNET, one of the preeminent digital properties for technology and consumer electronics information and featuring news, reviews, downloads and instructional and entertaining video and audio shows about technology; CNET en Espanol™, which delivers CNET.com’s information in the U.S. to Spanish speakers; TVGuide Digital™, which provides comprehensive information about television programming; GameSpot, a leading gaming information digital property providing video game reviews and previews, news, eSports, Webcasts, videos, and game downloads; CBSSports Digital™, which provides sports content, fantasy sports, community and e‑commerce features, and also owns and operates MaxPreps®; Last.fm, which is a music recommendation, discovery and social networking property; MetroLyrics.com, which is one of the most popular databases for song lyrics online; and TV.com, which is a destination for entertainment and community around television where visitors can watch videos and discuss and obtain information about television shows across all networks.

CBS Interactive also operates CBS.com, the online destination for CBS Television Network programming. Further extending the CBS.com experience, the Company offers a CBS app for on-demand streaming of various programs from the Company’s current network programming and library to users on multiple digital platforms, including Android, iOS, and Windows 8 and 10 mobile platforms, and Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and Xbox connected device platforms. CBS Interactive operates CBS All Access, the Company’s digital streaming subscription service launched in October 2014, which offers a more extensive on-demand selection of CBS Television Network content, both current programming and library, as well as the ability to stream live programming from local CBS Television Stations. CBS All Access is available at CBS.com and on the multiple digital platforms described above through the CBS app. CBS Interactive also operates CBSN, a live digital streaming advertiser-supported news network available 24 hours a day, seven days a week which launched in November 2014. CBSN is available at CBSNews.com and through the CBS News app on multiple digital platforms, including Android, iOS and Windows 8 mobile platforms, and Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and Xbox One connected device platforms. Through the CBS Audience Network™, the Company delivers video content from its digital properties and television, radio and affiliated stations under an advertiser-supported distribution model to third-party digital properties. The growing slate of the Company’s content available online includes full episodes, clips and highlights based on CBS, CBS Sports Network and Showtime Networks programming as well as original made-for-the-Web content.

CBS Films. CBS Films produces, acquires and distributes theatrical motion pictures across all genres. The budget for each picture is intended to be up to $50 million plus advertising and marketing costs at a level consistent with industry custom. The majority of motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films is intended for a wide, commercial theatrical release, similar to motion pictures typically produced and released by major studios. CBS Films’ theatrical releases in 2015 were The Duff and Love the Coopers. In 2016, CBS Films’ expected theatrical releases are Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life, The Price You Pay, The Sense of An Ending and Patriots Day.

In general, motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films are exhibited theatrically in the U.S. and internationally, followed by exploitation via home entertainment (including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs and electronic rental and sell-through), video-on-demand, pay-per-view, pay television, free television and basic cable, digital media outlets, including subscription video-on-demand, and, in some cases, other channels such as airlines and hotels. CBS Films exploits its motion pictures (including certain ancillary rights such as licensing and merchandising) and generates revenues in all media in the relevant release windows either directly, through affiliated CBS entities, or via third party distribution arrangements, including CBS Films’ multi-year agreement with Lions Gate Films, which was entered into in November 2014, for Lions Gate Films to distribute CBS Films’ new wide-release motion pictures in all media, except U.S. pay television.

Entertainment Competition.

Television Network. The television broadcast environment is highly competitive. The principal methods of competition in broadcast television are the development and acquisition of popular programming and the development of audience interest through programming and promotion, in order to sell advertising at profitable rates. Broadcast networks like CBS compete for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other broadcast networks, such as ABC, FOX, NBC, The CW and MyNetworkTV, independent television stations, cable program services, as well 

I-5

as other media, including DVDs and Blu‑ray Discs, digital program services, print and the Internet. In addition, the CBS Television Network competes with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

Television Production and Syndication. As a producer and distributor of programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups, and independent producers and syndicators, such as Disney, Fox, NBCUniversal, Sony and Warner Bros., to produce and sell programming both domestically and internationally. The Company also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties which are essential to the success of all of the Company’s entertainment businesses.

CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive competes with a variety of online properties for users, advertisers, and partners, including the following: general purpose portals, such as AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, especially as these properties expand their content offerings; search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing; online comparison shopping and retail properties, including Amazon.com; vertical content sites in the categories that CBS Interactive’s brands serve such as technology, gaming, music, news, business, food, and lifestyle focused digital properties; other content sites and apps, such as ESPN.com, HBO GO, Hulu and Netflix, as well as major television broadcast company digital properties and apps; and platforms such as blogs, podcasts and video properties. CBS Interactive also competes for users and advertisers with diversified media companies that provide both online and offline content, including magazines, cable television, network television, radio and newspapers.

CBS Films. Motion picture production and distribution is a highly competitive business. During the life cycle of the development and production of a motion picture project, CBS Films must compete for the rights to compelling underlying source material and talent such as writers, producers, directors, on-screen performers and other creative personnel. CBS Films must also compete with other buyers for the acquisition of third-party produced motion pictures. Once a motion picture is completed or acquired, CBS Films must compete with numerous other motion pictures produced and/or distributed by various studios and independent producers, including Paramount Pictures Corporation, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., Lions Gate Entertainment, The Weinstein Company, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. and Lakeshore Entertainment Group, among others, for audience acceptance as well as limited exhibition outlets across all of the relevant release windows. In addition, the ultimate consumer has many options for entertainment other than motion pictures including video games, sports, travel, outdoor recreation, the Internet, and other cultural and computer-related activities.

Cable Networks (16%, 16% and 15% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and 33%, 33% and 29% of the Company's total segment operating income in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively)

The Cable Networks segment is composed of Showtime Networks, which operates the Company’s premium subscription program services, including a digital streaming subscription offering; CBS Sports Network, the Company’s cable network focused on college athletics and other sports; and Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel and a digital streaming subscription service.

Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks owns and operates three commercial-free, premium subscription program services in the U.S.: Showtime, offering original series, recently released theatrical feature films, documentaries, boxing and other sports-related programming, and special events; The Movie Channel, offering recently released theatrical feature films and related programming; and Flix, offering theatrical feature films primarily from the last several decades; and a digital streaming subscription offering of the Showtime service which launched in July 2015. At December 31, 2015, Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix, in the aggregate, had approximately 77 million subscriptions in the U.S., certain U.S. territories and Bermuda.

Showtime Networks also owns and operates multiplexed channels of Showtime and The Movie Channel in the U.S., which offer additional and varied programming choices. Showtime Networks makes versions of Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix available “on demand,” enabling subscribers to watch individual programs at their 

I-6

convenience. Showtime Networks also makes available Showtime Anytime®, an authenticated version of Showtime, which can be accessed on computers via showtimeanytime.com™ or via certain Internet-connected devices through a Showtime Anytime app free of charge to Showtime subscribers as part of their Showtime subscription through participating Showtime Networks’ distributors. Through Showtime Anytime, Showtime subscribers can view on demand programming as well as the live telecast of the east and west coast feeds of Showtime. Showtime Networks additionally operates the Website SHO.com™ and various apps which promote Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix programming, and provide information and entertainment and other services. In July 2015, the Company launched its digital streaming subscription offering of the Showtime service for purchase by consumers without a traditional MVPD video subscription. This offering features current and classic original Showtime series, theatrical feature films, documentaries and sports-related programming, as well as the live east and west coast linear feeds of Showtime, and is available at showtime.com™, through the Showtime app on multiple digital platforms, including Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Chromecast and Roku connected device platforms, and as an add-on subscription to Amazon Prime or Hulu services or via Sony’s PlayStation Vue’s cloud-based television service.

Showtime Networks derives revenue principally from the license of its program services to numerous MVPDs, with a substantial portion of such revenue coming from three of the largest such distributors. The costs of acquiring exhibition rights to programming and producing original series are the principal expenses of Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on acquiring exclusive rights for Showtime and The Movie Channel, from motion picture studios and other distributors typically covering the U.S. and Bermuda for varying durations, including exclusive motion picture output agreements with CBS Films, Buena Vista Pay Television, a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company (for certain DreamWorks motion pictures), Open Road Films, STX Entertainment and (for motion pictures theatrically released through 2015) The Weinstein Company. Showtime Networks’ original series telecast in 2015 included Homeland, Ray Donovan, Masters of Sex, The Affair, Penny Dreadful, Shameless, Nurse Jackie, House of Lies and Episodes, among others. Showtime Networks also telecast various sports-related programs, including Inside the NFL, 60 Minutes Sports and A Season With Notre Dame Football. Showtime Networks has entered into and may from time to time enter into co-financing, co-production and/or distribution arrangements with other parties to reduce the net cost to Showtime Networks for its original programming. In addition, Showtime Networks derives revenue by licensing rights it retains in certain of its original programming. The Company enters into licensing arrangements with television networks, Internet content distributors, such as Amazon and Netflix, and/or other media companies for the exhibition of certain Showtime original programming domestically and in various international territories. For example, the Company has entered into an output agreement with Bell Media Inc. in January 2015 for Canada, with Sky-affiliated entities in December 2015, for Austria, Germany, Ireland, Italy and the U.K., and with Stan Entertainment PTY Limited in January 2016 for Australia. Showtime Networks also produces and/or provides special events to licensees on a pay-per-view basis through Showtime PPV® such as Floyd Mayweather’s two championship boxing matches held in 2015, including his pay-per-view record-breaking match against Manny Pacquiao, in May 2015, co-produced by HBO PPV®.

Showtime Networks also owns a majority of and manages Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel, a basic cable service in the U.S., featuring programs of a cultural, historical, scientific and educational nature. Smithsonian Networks offers a companion on-demand version, makes Smithsonian Channel content available on an authenticated basis to certain distributors in the U.S. and licenses Smithsonian Channel content outside of the U.S., including to Blue Ant Television Ltd. in connection with Smithsonian Channel in Canada. Smithsonian Networks also operates the Website SmithsonianChannel.com™ and various apps, which promote Smithsonian Channel programming and provide information and entertainment services. In November 2015, Smithsonian Networks launched Smithsonian Earth™, its digital streaming subscription service featuring original nature content, which is available to consumers without a traditional MVPD video subscription. Smithsonian Earth is available in ultra-high-definition resolution (4K) on multiple digital platforms, including Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV and Roku connected device platforms.

CBS Sports Network. CBS Sports Network is a 24 hours a day, seven days a week cable program service that provides sports and related content, with a strong focus on college sports. The network televises over 580 live professional, amateur, semi-professional and collegiate events annually, highlighted by Division I college football, basketball, hockey and lacrosse, as well as professional bull riding (PBR), professional lacrosse (MLL), arena football 

I-7

(AFL) and various styles of motor sports events (including asphalt, dirt, and off road racing). In addition, the network showcases a variety of original programming, including documentaries, features and studio shows, highlighted by That Other Pre-Game Show (TOPS), NFL Monday QB, Inside College Basketball, Inside College Football, and a first of its kind all-female panel talk show, We Need to Talk, and a new live sports talk show, Time to Schein. CBS Sports Network also provides ancillary coverage for CBS Sports relating to major events, such as the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament, Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and for Showtime Networks relating to Showtime Championship Boxing. CBS Sports Network produces weekday simulcasts of the radio shows Boomer and Carton and The Doug Gottlieb Show. Further, CBS Sports Network televises a diverse slate of additional programming under the CBS Sports Spectacular™ brand, including mixed martial arts, skiing, bowling, surfing, boxing, horse racing, volleyball, cheerleading and skate boarding, among other events. CBS Sports Network had approximately 55 million subscribers as of December 31, 2015. The network derives its revenues from subscription fees and the sale of advertising. CBS Sports Network has secured carriage arrangements with the top MVPDs.

Cable Networks Competition.

Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks primarily competes with other providers of premium subscription program services in the U.S., including Home Box Office, Inc. and Starz, LLC. Competition among these premium subscription program services in the U.S. is dependent on: (i) the production, acquisition and packaging of original series and other original programming and the acquisition and packaging of an adequate number of recently released theatrical motion pictures; and (ii) the offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to distributors for carriage so as to favorably position and package Showtime Networks’ premium subscription program services to subscribers. In addition, Showtime Networks competes with non-traditional subscription programming services delivered via the Internet, such as Amazon, Hulu and Netflix, for original programming, theatrical motion pictures and viewership. Showtime Networks also competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with basic cable program services, broadcast television and other media, including video games and other Internet apps.

Smithsonian Networks competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with non‑fiction and other basic cable program services, including Discovery Channel, National Geographic Channel and History, as well as with broadcast television and other media.

CBS Sports Network. CBS Sports Network principally competes with cable programming services, including other sports‑oriented cable programming services, for distribution and license fee revenue among MVPDs, as well as for viewership and advertising revenue. The effects of consolidation among MVPDs and consumer pricing sensitivity have made it more difficult for niche channels to secure broad distribution in mainstream programming packages. In addition, the largest cable providers have created sports tiers for sports programming services which have not, in many cases, achieved significant subscriber penetration or acceptance. CBS Sports Network continues its repositioning to be included in programming packages with more subscribers. Re-alignment of college athletic conferences and their member institutions may adversely impact CBS Sports Network’s programming arrangements. CBS Sports Network also competes with cable programming services generally, including other sports programming services, such as ESPN, FOX Sports Networks and NBC Sports Network, in acquiring the television and multimedia rights to sporting events, resulting in increased rights fees and increased production expenses.

The terms and favorable renewal of agreements with distributors for the distribution of the Company’s subscription program services are important to the Company. The effects of consolidation among MVPDs and other marketplace factors make it more difficult to reach and maintain favorable terms and positioning and could have an adverse effect on revenues.

Publishing (6% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and 4%, 3% and 3% of the Company's total segment operating income in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively)

The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books in the U.S. and internationally.

I-8

Simon & Schuster publishes and distributes adult and children’s consumer books in printed, digital and audio formats in the U.S. and internationally. Its digital formats include electronic books, and audio books. Simon & Schuster’s major adult imprints include Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner, Atria Books, Gallery Books, Touchstone, Threshold Editions™ and Howard Books®. Simon & Schuster’s major children’s imprints include Simon Pulse®, Aladdin®, Atheneum Books for Young Readers®, Margaret K. McElderry Books™, Saga Press™ and Simon & Schuster Books For Young Readers™. Simon & Schuster also develops special imprints and publishes titles based on the products of certain CBS businesses as well as that of third parties and distributes products for other publishers. Simon & Schuster distributes its products directly and through third parties. Simon & Schuster also delivers content and promotes its products on its own Websites, social media, general Internet sites as well as those dedicated to individual titles. Its created assets include online videos showcasing Simon & Schuster authors and new releases on AOL, Scripps Lifestyle Networks, SimonandSchuster.com, YouTube and other sites as well as online video courses led by authors made available for sale to consumers. International publishing includes the international distribution of English-language titles through Simon & Schuster UK, Simon & Schuster Canada, Simon & Schuster Australia, Simon & Schuster India and other distributors, as well as the publication of locally originated titles by its international companies.

In 2015, Simon & Schuster published 249 New York Times bestsellers in hardcover, paperback and electronic formats, collectively, including 32 New York Times #1 bestsellers. Best-selling titles in 2015 include The Wright Brothers by David McCullough, Bazaar of Bad Dreams by Stephen King and ongoing sales of the 2015 Pulitzer Prize-winning 2014 release, All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr. Bestselling children’s titles from Simon & Schuster include Dork Diaries 10 by Rachel Renée Russell, Rush Revere and the Star-Spangled Banner by Rush Limbaugh and Kathryn Adams Limbaugh and Michael Vey 5 by Richard Paul Evans. Simon & Schuster Digital™, through SimonandSchuster.com, publishes original content, builds reader communities and promotes and sells Simon & Schuster’s books over the Internet.

The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the end‑of‑year holiday season. Major new title releases represent a significant portion of Simon & Schuster’s sales throughout the year. Simon & Schuster’s top two accounts drive a significant portion of its annual revenue. Consumer print books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Company is subject to global trends and local economic conditions. In 2015, the sale of digital content represented approximately 25% of Simon & Schuster’s revenues. The Company expects that electronic books will continue to represent a significant portion of Simon & Schuster revenues in the coming years. 

Publishing Competition. The consumer publishing business is highly competitive and has been affected over the years by consolidation trends and electronic distribution methods and models. Mass merchandisers and on‑line retailers are significant factors in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. The growth of the electronic book market has impacted print book retailers and wholesalers and could result in a reduction of these channels for the sales and marketing of the Company’s books. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions and competition may adversely affect book retailers’ operations, including distribution of the Company’s books. The Company must compete with other larger publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Hachette and HarperCollins, for the rights to works by authors and sales to retailers and customers. Competition is particularly strong for well‑known authors and public personalities. In addition, technological changes have made it increasingly possible for authors to self‑publish and have led to the development of new digital distribution models in which the Company’s books must compete with the availability of both a larger volume of books as well as non‑book content.

Local Broadcasting (19%, 20% and 19% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and 27%, 30% and 27% of the Company's total segment operating income in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively)

The Local Broadcasting segment is composed of CBS Television Stations, the Company’s 30 owned broadcast television stations, and CBS Radio, through which the Company owns and operates 117 radio stations in 26 U.S. markets and related online properties. The Company operates local digital properties in major U.S. markets, including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and Dallas, which combine the Company’s television and radio local 

I-9

media brands online to provide the latest news, traffic, weather, and sports information as well as local discounts, directories and reviews to serve the local community.

CBS Television Stations. The Company owns 30 broadcast television stations through its CBS Television Stations group, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). The licenses are renewable every eight years. The Company’s television stations are located in the 6 largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. The Company owns multiple television stations within the same designated market area (“DMA”) in 10 major markets. These multiple station markets are: New York (market #1), Los Angeles (market #2), Philadelphia (market #4), Dallas-Fort Worth (market #5), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (market #6), Boston (market #8), Detroit (market #13), Miami-Ft. Lauderdale (market #16), Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto (market #20), and Pittsburgh (market #23). This group of television stations enables the Company to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations produce news and broadcast public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV programming and syndicated programming. The CBS Television Stations group principally derives its revenues from the sale of advertising time on its television stations. In addition, the CBS Television Stations group receives retransmission fees from MVPDs for authorizing the MVPDs’ carriage of the Company’s owned television stations. The Company’s television station Websites, many of which are combined with certain Websites of the Company’s radio stations in co-located markets, are operated by CBS Local Digital Media™ and promote the stations’ programming as well as provide news, information, entertainment, and other services. These Websites principally derive revenues from the sale of advertising. The “Television Stations, Radio Stations and CBS Local Digital Media Websites” table below includes information with respect to certain of these properties within top U.S. television markets and radio markets. In October 2014, the Company launched CBS All Access, a digital streaming subscription service offering an extensive on-demand selection of CBS Television Network content as well as the ability to stream live programming from local CBS Television Stations. CBS All Access is available at CBS.com and through the CBS app on multiple digital platforms, including Android, iOS, Windows 8 and 10 mobile platforms, and Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and Xbox connected device platforms. In 2015, CBS Television Stations and Weigel Broadcasting launched DECADES™, a national entertainment program service featuring classic television content, movies and original programming for local television stations’ digital sub-channels, which utilize a local television station's available broadcast spectrum to provide a companion to that station's primary channel.

CBS Radio. The Company’s radio broadcasting business operates through CBS Radio, one of the largest operators of radio stations in the U.S. CBS Radio owns and operates 117 radio stations serving 26 U.S. markets as of February 9, 2016. Virtually all of the Company’s owned and operated radio stations are located in the 50 largest U.S. radio markets and approximately 77% in the 25 largest U.S. radio markets. The Company’s strategy generally is to operate radio stations in the largest markets and take advantage of the Company’s ability to sell advertising across multiple markets and formats. The Company believes that it is favorably impacted by offering radio and television platforms in large markets.

CBS Radio’s geographically dispersed stations serve diverse target demographics through a broad range of formats, such as rock, classic hits/oldies, all‑news, talk, Spanish language, adult contemporary, top 40/contemporary hit radio, urban, sports and country. In addition, CBS Radio has established leading news, sports and personality-driven programming. This diversity provides advertisers with the convenience of selecting stations to reach a targeted demographic or groups of stations to reach broad groups of consumers within and across markets and also reduces the Company’s dependence on any single station, local economy, format or advertiser. At the same time, CBS Radio maintains substantial diversity in most markets where its stations operate so that its stations appeal to several demographic groups. CBS Radio’s general programming strategies include employing popular on-air talent, some of whose broadcasts may be syndicated by CBS Radio using third parties, broadcasting third party syndicated programming , acquiring the rights to broadcast sports play‑by‑play and producing and acquiring news content. The overall mix of each radio station’s programming lineup is designed to fit the station’s specific format and serve its local community.

I-10

The majority of CBS Radio’s revenues are generated from the sale of local and national advertising. The major categories of radio advertisers include automotive, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, insurance, fast food, beverage, movies and entertainment. CBS Radio is able to use the reach, diversity and branding of its radio stations to create unique division‑wide marketing and promotional initiatives for major national advertisers. Advertising expenditures by advertisers fluctuate, which has an effect on CBS Radio’s revenues.

The Company’s radio station Websites, many of which are combined with certain of the Company’s television station Websites in co‑located markets, are operated by CBS Local Digital Media and promote and stream simultaneously the stations’ programming as well as provide news, information and entertainment, and other services. Radio station programming is also streamed live on the Company's Radio.com™ Website and CBS Local apps. The “Television Stations, Radio Stations and CBS Local Digital Media Websites” table below includes information with respect to certain of these properties within top U.S. television markets and radio markets. Also, CBS Local Digital Media operates Websites for the Company's music radio stations. All of these Websites principally derive revenues from the sale of advertising. CBS Radio is one of the most listened to online radio providers according to Triton Digital’s monthly Top 20 Ranker for December 2015.

CBS Sports Radio Network™ provides national sports programming to affiliated radio stations up to 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The network has more than 300 affiliates across the U.S. and in Canada, including radio stations in all of the top 10 U.S. radio markets. Cumulus Media, as CBS Sports Radio Network's exclusive syndicator, is responsible for securing radio station affiliates and for the network's advertising sales.

Local Broadcasting Competition.

CBS Television Stations. Television stations compete for programming, on‑air talent, audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and, in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The owned and operated television stations’ competitive position is largely influenced by the quality of the syndicated programs and local news programs in time periods not programmed by the network; the strength of the CBS Television Network programming and, in particular, the viewership of the CBS Television Network in the time period immediately prior to the late evening news; and in some cases, by the quality of the broadcast signal.

CBS Radio. The Company’s radio stations directly compete within their respective markets for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other radio stations, including those owned by other group owners such as Cumulus Media Inc., Emmis Communications Corporation, Entercom Communications Corp., iHeartMedia, Inc. and Radio One, Inc. The Company’s radio stations, including their Internet and streaming activities, also compete with other media, such as broadcast, cable and DBS television, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, and the Internet, including services such as Pandora, Spotify and Rhapsody. The radio industry is also subject to competition from Sirius XM Holdings Inc., which provides digital audio services to subscribers.

The Company’s television and radio stations face increasing competition from technologies such as audio and visual content delivered via the Internet, which create new ways for individuals to watch programming and listen to music and other content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements. Also, an increasingly broad adoption by consumers of portable digital devices could affect the ability of the Company’s television and radio stations to attract audiences and advertisers.

Aggregate total revenues for the Company’s radio stations for 2015 were ranked #1 or #2 in four of the top five U.S. markets by metro area population (New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and San Francisco), according to the 2015 Market Total Revenues Performance Summary of Miller Kaplan Arase LLP.

I-11

Television Stations, Radio Stations and CBS Local Digital Media Websites

The following table sets forth information with regard to the Company’s owned television stations, radio stations and related CBS Local Digital Media Websites, as of February 9, 2016, within top U.S. television and radio markets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

I-12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

I-13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The CBS Local Digital Media group operates the Websites of the Company’s television stations and radio stations. Many of these Websites are combined for the television stations and non-music radio stations in co-located markets. The Websites provide news, information, entertainment, as well as other services, and promote stations’ programming. 

(2)Television market (DMA) rankings based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimates, September 2015. Radio market (DMA) rankings based on Nielsen Audio Radio Market Survey, Fall 2015. 

(3)As required by the FCC, the Company assigned KFWB-AM to a divestiture trust. The Company is a beneficiary of the trust. The trustee is operating the radio station and is responsible for selling the radio station to a third party. An agreement to sell the radio station has been executed and an application to obtain the FCC's consent to the proposed sale is pending. (See “CBS Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting—Ownership Regulation—Radio‑Television Cross‑Ownership Rule”).

(4)KZDG-AM in San Francisco, California, is programmed by a third party through a time brokerage agreement.

(5)WNEW-FM in Washington, D.C., is programmed by a third party through a time brokerage agreement.

(6)KCCO-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV.

(7)KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV.

(8)WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC’s ownership rules.

REGULATION

The Company’s businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations of federal, state and local governmental authorities in the U.S. and of national, regional and local authorities in foreign countries. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting these businesses are subject to change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company’s businesses.

Intellectual Property and Privacy

Laws affecting intellectual property are of significant importance to the Company. (See “Intellectual Property” on page I-18 for more information on the Company’s brands).

Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Content and Piracy. Unauthorized distribution, reproduction or display of copyrighted material in digital formats without regard to content owners’ copyright rights in television programming, motion pictures, clips and books, such as through pirated DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, unauthorized stored copies and live streaming, Internet downloads, file “sharing” and peer-to-peer services, is a threat to copyright owners’ ability to protect and exploit their property. The Company’s digital delivery services and commercial arrangements with digital content providers help reduce the risks associated with unauthorized access to its content. The Company is also engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect its intellectual property and participates in various litigation, public relations programs and legislative activity. 

Copyright Law and Content. The Company derives revenues from the creation and exploitation of creative content, for which the copyright law grants certain exclusive rights, including to reproduce, publicly perform and distribute. The duration of the protection afforded to the Company’s intellectual property depends on the type of property and the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., the copyright term for authored works is the life of the author plus 70 years. For works made for hire, the copyright term is the shorter of 95 years from the 

I-14

first publication or 120 years from creation. Any changes to copyright laws, including through court decisions, which diminish the scope of a copyright owner’s exclusive rights, could impact the Company.

Privacy. The laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transfer of consumer information are complex and rapidly evolving, particularly as they relate to the Company’s interactive businesses. The Company monitors and considers these laws and regulations in the design and operation of its Websites, digital content services and legal and regulatory compliance programs.

Broadcasting

General. Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other actions, to issue, renew, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses; determine stations’ frequencies, locations and operating power; regulate some of the equipment used by stations; adopt other regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act and other laws, including requirements affecting the content of broadcasts; and to impose penalties for violation of its regulations, including monetary forfeitures, short-term renewal of licenses and, in egregious cases, license revocation or denial of license renewals.

Under the Communications Act, the FCC also regulates certain aspects of the operation of MVPDs and certain other electronic media that compete with broadcast stations.

Indecency and Profanity Regulation. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent or profane material because the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency/profanity definition makes it difficult to apply, particularly with respect to spontaneous, live programming. The FCC’s maximum forfeiture penalty per station for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The Company has been involved in litigation and, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on its broadcast stations included indecent or profane material.

License Renewals. Radio and television broadcast licenses are typically granted for standard terms of eight years. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity and, with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules and regulations and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. The Company has a number of pending renewal applications. A station remains authorized to operate while its license renewal application is pending.

License Assignments. The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee. Third parties may oppose the Company’s applications to assign, transfer or acquire broadcast licenses.

Ownership Regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have an official position or ownership interest, known as an “attributable” interest, above specific levels in broadcast stations as well as in other specified mass media entities. In seeking FCC approval for the acquisition of a broadcast radio or television station license, the acquiring person or entity must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC’s ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest.

The FCC adopted a notice of proposed rule‑making (“NPRM”) in its latest quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules in April 2014, which incorporates the record of the FCC’s prior review of broadcast ownership rules, which started in December 2011. The FCC’s current ownership rules, certain proposed changes by and items for which the FCC is seeking comments under the ownership NPRM, are briefly summarized below.

I-15

Local Radio Ownership. The FCC’s local radio ownership rule applies in all markets where the Company owns radio stations. Under that rule, one party may own up to eight radio stations in the largest markets, no more than five of which may be either AM or FM. With a few exceptions, the rule permits the common ownership of 8 radio stations in the top 50 markets, where CBS Radio has significant holdings.

Local Television Ownership. Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, one party may own up to two television stations in the same DMA, so long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top-four ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC, and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power television stations remain in the market following the acquisition of the second television station. The NPRM proposes to modify the local television station ownership rule to prohibit transactions involving the sale or swap of network affiliations between same-market television stations that result in an entity holding an attributable interest in two top-four ranked television stations. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. “Satellite” television stations that simply rebroadcast the programming of a “parent” television station are exempt from the local television ownership rule if located in the same DMA as the “parent” station.

Television National Audience Reach Limitation. Under the FCC’s national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations which reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households. For purposes of calculating the total number of television households reached by a station, the FCC attributes a UHF television station with only 50% of the television households in its market. In September 2013, the FCC adopted a notice of proposed rule‑making to eliminate the UHF discount, which remains pending. The Company currently owns and operates television stations that reach approximately 38% of all U.S. television households but for purposes of the national ownership limitation, the Company’s reach is less than this amount applying the UHF discount in accordance with the FCC’s methodology.

Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule limits the common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market. The numeric limit varies according to the number of independent media voices in the market. The Company owns a combination of radio and television stations in the Los Angeles market in excess of the limit. As required by the FCC, the Company assigned radio station KFWB-AM in Los Angeles to a divestiture trust. The Company is a beneficiary of the trust. The trustee is operating the radio station and is responsible for selling the radio station to a third party. An agreement to sell the radio station has been executed and an application to obtain the FCC's consent to the proposed sale is pending. This radio station sale would bring the Company into compliance with this cross-ownership rule.

Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership. The newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule prohibits the common ownership of a radio or television station and daily newspaper in the same market absent a waiver by the FCC. As part of its NPRM, the FCC seeks comment on: (1) whether the restriction on newspaper-radio cross-ownership should be eliminated, and (2) a rule that would presume a waiver of the restriction on newspaper-television cross-ownership to be consistent with the public interest if a daily newspaper sought to combine with a full-power commercial television station in the same top 20 television market, and (a) the television station is not ranked among the top four television stations in the market and (b) at least eight independently owned and operated “major media voices” would remain in the market after the combination.

Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, from combining.

Attribution of Ownership. Under the FCC’s attribution rules, a direct or indirect purchaser of various types of securities of an entity which holds FCC licenses, such as the Company, could violate the foregoing FCC ownership regulations or policies if that purchaser owned or acquired an “attributable” interest in other media properties. Under 

I-16

the FCC’s rules, an “attributable” interest for purposes of the FCC’s broadcast ownership rules generally includes: equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee’s total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of the licensee’s total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless the interest holder is properly “insulated” from management activities; and any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. The FCC is reviewing its single majority voting shareholder attribution exemption, which renders as non‑attributable voting interests up to 49% in a licensee controlled by a single majority voting shareholder. Because NAI holds an attributable interest in both the Company and Viacom Inc., the business of each company is attributable to the other for certain FCC purposes, which may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company. (See Item 1A. “Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities”).

Alien Ownership. In general, the Communications Act prohibits foreign individuals or entities from owning more than 25% of the voting power or equity of the Company. In November 2013, the FCC provided additional information regarding its case-by-case review process for applications that propose foreign ownership that exceed such 25% threshold and, in October 2015, the FCC issued an NPRM proposing to simplify the process to obtain FCC consent to exceed the 25% threshold.

Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations. The 1992 Cable Act and implementing FCC regulations govern the retransmission of commercial television stations by cable television operators. Every three years, a television station must elect, with respect to cable systems within its DMA, either “must carry” status, pursuant to which the cable system’s carriage of the station is mandatory, or “retransmission consent,” pursuant to which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and secures instead the right to negotiate consideration in return for consenting to carriage. The Company’s owned television stations have elected the retransmission consent option in substantially all cases, and, since 2006, the Company has implemented a systematic process of seeking monetary consideration for its retransmission consent.

Similarly, federal legislation and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by DBS operators. DBS operators are required to carry the signals of all local television broadcast stations requesting carriage in local markets in which the DBS operator carries at least one signal pursuant to the statutory local-to-local compulsory copyright license. Every three years, each television station in such markets must elect “must carry” or “retransmission consent” status, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to cable systems. The Company’s owned and operated television stations are being transmitted into their local markets by the two major DBS operators pursuant to retransmission consent agreements.

Children’s Television Programming. Federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on television stations during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and require stations to broadcast on their main program stream three hours per week of educational and informational programming (“E/I programming”) designed for children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also impose E/I programming requirements on each additional digital multicast program stream transmitted by television stations, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. These rules also limit the display during children’s programming of Internet addresses of Websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products.

Program Access. Under the Communications Act, vertically integrated cable programmers (more fully described below) are generally prohibited from offering different prices, terms or conditions for programming to competing MVPDs unless the differential is justified by certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC’s regulations. Until 2012, the FCC’s “program access” rules also generally prohibited vertically integrated cable programmers from entering into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators. The FCC continues to assess the competitive impact of such individual exclusive contracts. A cable programmer is considered to be vertically integrated under the FCC’s 

I-17

program access attribution rules if it owns or is owned by a cable operator in whole or in part. Cable operators for this purpose may include telephone companies that provide video programming directly to subscribers.

The Company’s wholly owned program services are not currently subject to the program access rules. The Company’s flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for carriage of these services and its ability to offer cable operators exclusive programming could be adversely affected if it were to become subject to the program access rules. Because the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control by NAI, Viacom Inc.’s businesses could be attributable to the Company for purposes of the FCC’s program access rules. (See Item 1A. “Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities”).

National Broadband Plan. In response to the FCC’s March 2010 National Broadband Plan, which seeks to provide affordable broadband access throughout the U.S., Congress passed legislation in February 2012 authorizing the FCC to conduct voluntary auctions to reclaim spectrum utilized by broadcast television stations to provide additional spectrum for wireless broadband services. The television stations that continue their operations may have to change channels once the FCC “repacks” the remaining spectrum dedicated to broadcast television use after the auction. The legislation provides that the FCC will assist television stations in retaining their current coverage areas, no UHF band stations will be forced into the VHF band and a fund will be established to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses relating to the spectrum‑repacking. The FCC has established the rules by which the auction, which is scheduled to occur in 2016, will be conducted.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The Company creates, owns, distributes and exploits under licenses intellectual property worldwide. It is the Company’s practice to protect its products, including its television, radio and motion picture products, characters, publications and other original and acquired works and audiovisual works made for digital exploitation. The following logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are among those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company: CBS®, CBS Entertainment™, CBS News®, CBS Sports®, CBSSports.com®, CBS All Access®, CBSN®, CNET®, CBS Radio®, Showtime®, Showtime Anytime®, The Movie Channel®, Flix®, CBS Films®, CBS Audience Network®, TV.com™, Last.fm®, MetroLyrics®, CSI:®, NCIS®, Entertainment Tonight®, Star Trek®, Simon & Schuster®, CBS Sports Network®, CBS Interactive™ and all the call letters for the Company’s television and radio stations. As a result, domestic and foreign laws protecting intellectual property rights are important to the Company and the Company actively enforces its intellectual property rights against infringements.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2015, the Company employed approximately 16,260 full-time and part-time salaried employees and had approximately 5,640 additional project-based staff.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS

Financial and other information by segment and relating to foreign and domestic operations for each of the last three years ending December 31 is set forth in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

CBS Corp. makes available free of charge on its Website, www.cbscorporation.com (Investors section), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such material is made available through the Company’s Website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Website at www.sec.gov.

I-18

Item 1A. Risk Factors.