ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.  

The following “risk factors” identify what the Company believes to be all of the risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered and evaluated together with information incorporated by reference or otherwise included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial also may impair the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

The Company is subject to risks arising from uncertainty in worldwide economic conditions.  

Current uncertainty regarding global economic conditions and the existence and rate of any economic recovery may have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, and on the general economic activity in many of the industries and markets in which the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers operate. Among the economic factors which may affect performance are: manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. These effects may, among other things, negatively impact the level of purchases, capital expenditures and creditworthiness of the Company’s distributors, customers and suppliers, and, therefore, the Company’s revenues, operating profits and margins and order rates.  

During the second half of fiscal 2010, the Company began to see signs of an economic recovery. Throughout the worldwide economic downturn, the Company focused on maintaining its financial strength by adjusting its cost structure to reflect changing demand levels, maintaining a strong balance sheet and managing its cash. The Company’s Win Strategy initiatives relating to growth and margin improvement as well as the implementation of a number of business realignment initiatives, including plant closures and general workforce reductions, continue to help meet this objective. There can be no assurance, however, that these or any other initiatives or contingency plans implemented by the Company will be successful or that the Company will have sufficient resources to manage the recovery if the economy rebounds more quickly than anticipated.  

The Company cannot predict if, when or how much worldwide economic conditions will improve. These conditions are highly unpredictable and beyond the Company’s control. If these conditions deteriorate, however, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  

- 11 -  

The Company is subject to risks relating to its information technology systems.  

The Company relies extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate its business. If these systems are damaged or cease to function properly and the Company suffers any interruption in its ability to manage and operate its business, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

Potential product liability risks exist from the products that the Company sells.  

The Company’s businesses expose it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that the Company uses or resells. Although the Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance will provide adequate protection against all potential liabilities. In the event of a claim against it, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, even if the Company maintains adequate insurance, a successful claim could still have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.  

The Company may be adversely affected by litigation or other regulatory proceedings.  

The Company is a defendant from time to time in litigation and regulatory proceedings relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The Company is subject to risks relating to organizational changes.  

The Company regularly executes organizational changes such as acquisitions, divestitures and realignments to support its growth and cost management strategies. In addition, the Company commits significant resources to identify, develop and retain key employees to ensure uninterrupted leadership and direction. If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other organizational changes, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

Demand for and supply of the Company’s products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which the Company cannot predict or control, which would adversely affect its results of operations.  

Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of the Company’s products, including:  

   •    changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, and changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs;  

   •    changes in the market acceptance of its products;  

   •    increased competition in the markets it serves;  

- 12 -  

   •    declines in the general level of industrial production; or  

   •    declines in the availability, or increases in the prices, of raw materials.  

If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of the Company’s products could suffer, which would adversely affect its results of operations.  

The raw materials used in the Company’s production processes and by its suppliers of component parts are subject to price and supply fluctuations that could increase the costs of products and adversely affect our results of operations.  

The Company’s supply of raw materials for its businesses could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Although the Company generally attempts to manage these fluctuations by, among other things, passing along increased raw material prices to its customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the Company’s ability to increase the price of its products, or the Company may be unable to increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure, sales contracts or other factors.  

The Company’s suppliers of component parts may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of raw materials that they use to manufacture the component parts. As a result, the Company may not be able to increase its prices commensurately with its increased costs. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  

The Company may face various risks relating to acquisitions, including limitations on its ability to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.  

The Company expects to continue its strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services that it believes will enhance its operations and profitability. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms. In addition, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid acquiring or assuming unexpected liabilities, that the Company will be able to integrate successfully any businesses that it purchases into its existing business or that any acquired businesses will be profitable. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. If the Company is unable to avoid these risks, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment.  

The Company’s domestic and foreign operations are subject to competition from a wide variety of global and local competitors, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations by creating downward pricing pressure and/or a decline in the Company’s margins or market shares. To compete successfully, the Company’s Industrial Segment and Climate & Industrial Controls Segment must excel in terms of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability and price competitiveness and its Aerospace Segment must excel on the basis of technological and engineering capability, quality, delivery and service, and price competitiveness.  

- 13 -  

The Company is subject to risks relating to its foreign operations.  

The Company’s net sales derived from customers outside the United States were approximately 45% in fiscal 2010, 44% in fiscal 2009 and 47% in fiscal 2008. In addition, many of the Company’s manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the United States. The Company expects net sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of its total net sales. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to risk in addition to those risks of its domestic operations, including:  

   •    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;  

   •    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;  

   •    transportation delays and interruptions;  

   •    political, social and economic instability and disruptions;  

   •    government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions;  

   •    the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;  

   •    import and export controls;  

   •    labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;  

   •    the potential for nationalization of enterprises;  

   •    difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;  

   •    limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;  

   •    potentially adverse tax consequences; and  

   •    difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely basis.  

If the Company is unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding its global business or adequately manage operational fluctuations internationally, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Changes in the Company’s tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect profitability.  

The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by United States federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-United States authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.  

- 14 -  

The Obama administration has proposed legislation that would change how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on their foreign income. If such legislation is enacted, the Company’s effective tax rate and, in turn, the Company’s profitability, could be materially impacted.  

The Company’s future growth is partly dependent on the development of new products and technologies.  

The markets the Company operates in are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent introductions of new products and services. The Company’s ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.  

The Company’s future growth is partly dependent on the preservation of its intellectual property.  

Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, the global nature of the Company’s business could present increased risks that the Company’s intellectual property will be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.  

The Company may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations to which it is subject.  

The Company’s operations necessitate the use and handling of hazardous materials and, as a result, it is subject to various United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as foreign laws, designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damages and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or the exposure to, hazardous materials. Among other laws, the Company is subject to the United States federal “Superfund” law, under which it has been designated as a “potentially responsible party” and may be liable for clean-up costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority list. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws, including the Superfund law.  

- 15 -  

In addition, increased worldwide focus on climate change issues has led to recent legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, including regulation of such emissions through a “cap-and-trade” system in the United States. Changes in or to regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change concerns could subject the Company to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw material costs. While such regulation appears likely in the United States, until definitive regulations are adopted, the Company is not able to predict how such regulations would affect the Company’s business, operations or financial results.  

The Company may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are enacted in the future, these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.  

The amount of expenses recorded for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans is dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns. Significant changes in market interest rates and decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets would increase expenses and may adversely impact the Company’s future results of operations.  

The Company does business with the United States government and as such is subject to government regulations.  

In addition to the risks identified herein, doing business with the United States government subjects the Company to unusual risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement regulations. Agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification, either at the convenience of the government or for the Company’s failure to perform under the applicable contract. The Company is subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If the Company were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.  

ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.  

ITEM 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant.  

The Company’s Executive Officers are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

- 16 -  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

- 17 -  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors to serve for a term of one-year or until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of death, resignation or removal. Messrs. Pistell, Eline, Maxwell, Piraino, Serbin and Sherrard and Ms. Huggins have served in the executive capacities indicated above opposite their respective names during each of the past five years.  

Mr. Washkewicz has served as a Director of the Company since 2000. Mr. Washkewicz has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since October 2004, Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2001, and President since January 2007.  

Mr. Kashkoush who will be retiring effective September 30, 2010 has been Executive Vice President – Sales, Marketing and Operations Support since October 2007. He was Corporate Vice President – Worldwide Sales and Marketing from October 2003 to October 2007.  

Mr. Banks has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008, Vice President from October 2001 to November 2006, and President of the Hydraulics Group from October 2003 to November 2006. He is also a Director of Nordson Corporation.  

Mr. Barker has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006 and President of the Aerospace Group since March 2003. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008 and Vice President from April 2003 to November 2006.  

Mr. Williams has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008 and Vice President and President of the Instrumentation Group from March 2005 to November 2006. He is also a Director of Chart Industries, Inc.  

Mr. Dennis who will be retiring effective September 30, 2010 has been Senior Vice President – Finance since August 2008. He was a Vice President from October 2001 to August 2008 and Controller from July 1999 to August 2008.  

Mr. Bond has been a Vice President since July 2000 and has been President of the Fluid Connectors Group since March 2005.  

- 18 -  

Mr. Chung has been a Vice President and President of the Asia Pacific Group since March 2008. He was Vice President – Operations of the Hydraulic Group in Asia from January 2005 to March 2008.  

Mr. Cullman has been a Vice President and President of the Hydraulics Group since November 2006. He was Vice President –Operations of the Hydraulics Group from July 2002 to November 2006.  

Mr. Dedinsky has been Vice President – Global Supply Chain and Procurement since January 2006. He was Vice President – Global Sourcing and Procurement from July 2004 to January 2006.  

Mr. Greco has been a Vice President and President of the Instrumentation Group since October 2006. He was Vice President and General Manager of the Global Parflex Division from August 2005 to October 2006 and General Manager of the Parflex Division from March 1996 to August 2005.  

Mr. Healy has been a Vice President since April 2006 and has been President of the Climate & Industrial Controls Group since July 2006. He was a Climate & Industrial Controls Group Vice President and General Manager of Mobile Climate Systems Division from September 2004 to April 2006.  

Mr. Hoelting has been Vice President – Tax since February 2007. He was Vice President – Taxation from January 1998 to February 2007.  

Mr. Keller has been Vice President and President of the Seal Group since August 2009. He was Vice President of Operations of the Seal Group from July 2005 to August 2009 and General Manager of O-Ring Division from April 1999 to July 2005.  

Mr. Machado has been a Vice President since January 2006 and has been President of the Latin America Group since March 2000.  

Mr. Marten has been Vice President and Controller since August 2008. He was an Assistant Controller of the Corporation from July 2007 to August 2008 and Vice President and Controller of the Aerospace Group from October 2004 to July 2007.  

Mr. Popoff has been a Vice President and President of the Filtration Group since February 2008. He was Vice President – Operations of the Filtration Group from April 2006 to February 2008 and Vice President/General Manager of the Global Racor Division from July 2004 to April 2006.  

Mr. Saulnier has been Vice President and President of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Group since September 2008. He was President of Sales Companies – Europe, Middle East and Africa from January 2008 to September 2008 and Vice President – Operations of Sales Companies South from July 2001 to January 2008.  

ITEM 2. Properties. The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Cleveland, Ohio and, at June 30, 2010, the Company had 304 manufacturing plants and 286 distribution centers and sales and administrative offices throughout the world, none of which were individually material to its operations. The facilities are situated in 39 states within the United States and in 45 other countries. The Company owns the majority of its manufacturing plants and distribution centers, and its leased properties primarily  

- 19 -  

 consist of sales and administrative offices. The number of facilities used by each of the Company’s operating segments is summarized by type and geographic location in the tables below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Several facilities are shared among each of the Company’s operating segments. To avoid double counting, each shared facility is counted once, primarily in the Industrial Segment.  

The Company believes that its properties have been adequately maintained, are in good condition generally and are suitable and adequate for its business as presently conducted. The extent to which the Company uses its properties varies by property and from time to time. The Company believes that its restructuring efforts have brought capacity levels closer to present and anticipated needs. Most of the Company’s manufacturing facilities remain capable of handling additional volume increases.  

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. Parker ITR S.r.l. (Parker ITR), a subsidiary acquired on January 31, 2002, has been the subject of a number of lawsuits and regulatory investigations since April 27, 2007, when a grand jury in the Southern District of Florida issued a subpoena to Parker ITR and the Company requiring the production of documents, in particular documents related to communications with competitors and customers related to Parker ITR’s business unit that manufactures marine hose, typically used in oil transfer. The lawsuits and investigations relate to allegations that for a period of up to 21 years, the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose conspired with competitors in unreasonable restraint of trade to artificially raise, fix, maintain or stabilize prices, rig bids and allocate markets and customers for marine oil and gas hose in the United States and in other jurisdictions. The time period for the alleged illegal activities by Parker ITR’s marine hose business unit varies by jurisdiction. Parker ITR and the Company have cooperated with all of the regulatory authorities investigating the activities of the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose and continue to cooperate with the investigations that remain ongoing. Several of the lawsuits and investigations have concluded. The following lawsuits and investigations remain pending or were resolved after March 31, 2010.  

- 20 -  

Four class action lawsuits were filed in the Southern District of Florida: Shipyard Supply LLC v. Bridgestone Corporation, et al., filed May 17, 2007; Expro Gulf Limited v. Bridgestone Corporation, et al., filed June 6, 2007; Bayside Rubber & Products, Inc. v. Trelleborg Industrie S.A., et al., filed June 25, 2007; Bayside Rubber & Products, Inc. v. Caleca, et al., filed July 12, 2007; and one in the Southern District of New York: Weeks Marine, Inc. v. Bridgestone Corporation, et al., filed July 27, 2007. On September 12, 2008, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated class action complaint. These lawsuits involve conduct from January 1985 to May 2007. Plaintiffs have since filed another amended consolidated complaint naming prior owners of the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose. Plaintiffs generally seek treble damages, a permanent injunction, attorneys’ fees, and pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.  

The Company and Parker ITR reached a settlement of the class action litigation in the United States, and the court granted final approval of that settlement on January 13, 2010. On February 17, 2009, Parker ITR entered into a separate agreement to settle possible private causes of action outside the United States.  

Brazilian competition authorities commenced their investigations on November 14, 2007. Parker ITR filed a procedural defense in January 2008. The Brazilian competition authorities have not yet responded to Parker ITR’s filing. The Brazilian competition authorities’ investigation is ongoing and the Company and Parker ITR continue to cooperate. The Brazilian authorities appear to be investigating the period from 1999 through May 2007. Because the Brazilian competition authorities have not yet responded to Parker ITR’s initial filing, the potential outcome of this investigation is uncertain and will depend on the resolution of numerous issues not yet addressed at the current preliminary stage of the investigation.  

On May 15, 2007, the European Commission issued its initial Request for Information to the Company and Parker ITR. On January 28, 2009, the European Commission announced the results of its investigation of the alleged cartel activities. As part of its decision, the European Commission found that Parker ITR infringed Article 81 of the European Commission treaty from April 1986 to May 2, 2007 and fined Parker ITR 25.61 million euros. The European Commission also determined that the Company was jointly and severally responsible for 8.32 million euros of the total fine which related to the period from January 2002, when the Company acquired Parker ITR, to May 2, 2007, when the cartel activities ceased. Parker ITR and the Company filed an appeal to the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on April 10, 2009.  

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) filed a statement of claim in the Federal Court of Australia on May 29, 2009 and named Parker ITR as a respondent. Counsel for Parker ITR accepted service related to the ACCC’s statement of claim and hearings have been held in the matter. The ACCC is investigating conduct through 2007. On December 10, 2009, Parker ITR and the ACCC presented a proposed settlement to the court which provides for a total fine of 675,000 Australian dollars, which was approved on April 13, 2010. Parker ITR has paid this fine, which, as of April 23, 2010 (date of payment), was approximately $626 thousand (based on the then-current exchange rate).  

An additional related action was brought against the Company on May 25, 2010 under the False Claims Act in the Central District of California: The United States of America ex rel. Douglas Farrow v. Trelleborg, AB et al. The United States declined to intervene against the Company or Parker ITR in the case. Plaintiff generally seeks treble damages, penalties for each false claim and attorneys’ fees.  

- 21 -  

ITEM 4. (Removed and Reserved).