Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.  

OVERVIEW  

We are a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products dedicated to serving the healthcare needs of women. Our core business units are focused on breast health, diagnostics, GYN surgical, and skeletal health. On August 1, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Gen-Probe. Gen-Probe is a leader in molecular diagnostics products and services that are used primarily to diagnose human diseases, screen donated human blood, and test transplant compatibility. Gen-Probe is part of our Diagnostics business segment.  

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, MRI, breast coils, CAD, for mammography and MRI, minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a new technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images. In the U.S., our Dimensions product was approved in December 2008 by the FDA for providing conventional 2D images. In February 2011, we received approval from the FDA to enable the 3D tomosynthesis capability of our Dimensions system. In November 2011, we announced the commercial release of our C-View synthesized 2D image reconstruction algorithm that eliminates the need for a conventional 2D mammogram as a component of a 3D mammography exam. C-View software is approved for sale throughout the European Economic Area and in other countries recognizing the CE Mark. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we submitted a pre-market approval application to the FDA for this capability.  

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and screen donated human blood. Our molecular diagnostics products include our APTIMA family of assays our Proprietary Invader Chemistry and advanced instrumentation (PANTHER, TIGRIS and HTA). The APTIMA family of assays is used to detect the common STDs chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. Our Invader chemistry comprises molecular diagnostic reagents used for a variety of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including Cervista HPV HR, and Cervista HPV 16/18 products to assist in the diagnosis of HPV, as well as other products to diagnose cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases. In December 2011, we announced the FDA approved our Cervista HTA system for use with our Cervista HPV HR test. The Cervista HTA system automates the DNA extraction and detection steps of the Cervista HPV HR test. This product was launched in January 2012. Our diagnostics products also include the ThinPrep System, which is primarily used in cytology applications such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, which assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we develop and manufacture the PROCLEIX family of assays, which are used to detect HIV, HCV, HBV, and WNV in donated human blood. These blood screening products are marketed worldwide by our blood screening collaborator, Novartis, under Novartis’ trademarks.  

Our GYN surgical products include our NovaSure system, and MyoSure system. The NovaSure system involves a minimally invasive procedure for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids and polyps within the uterus. At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we decided to cease manufacturing, marketing and selling our Adiana system determining that the product was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future.  

Our skeletal health products include dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, and our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging products.  

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and each of its consolidated subsidiaries.  

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS  

On August 1, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Gen-Probe. Such acquisition, and the significant indebtedness we incurred to fund that acquisition, subject us to risks and uncertainties are described herein, including those set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.  

Market acceptance of our medical products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. In the United States, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS, establish coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Under current CMS policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our  

44  

Table of Contents 

 products and treatments. Coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS. The use of our products and treatments outside the United States is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. CMS has not adopted a reimbursement rate for the use of 3D tomosynthesis, as tomosynthesis was only recently approved by the FDA in February 2011 in connection with our pre-market approval, or PMA, application for our Dimensions system. We are working with governmental authorities, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in our efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3D tomosynthesis. However, we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3D tomosynthesis would adversely affect sales of our Dimensions 3D systems.  

The continuing uncertainty surrounding worldwide financial markets and macroeconomic conditions has caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease or delay their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Additionally, volatility in world credit markets has caused and continues to cause our customers to experience difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. Economic uncertainty and unemployment have and may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers focusing on acute care rather than wellness, which has and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.  

In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and imposes new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of certain medical devices effective January 1, 2013. We expect that all of our products will fall under the government classification requiring the excise tax. Product sales in the United States represented 73% and 76% of our worldwide net product sales for the years ended September 29, 2012 and September 24, 2011, respectively.  

We operate in a highly regulated industry and other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including, without limitation: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, methods of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and changes in the tax laws relating to our operations, including those associated with the recently adopted healthcare reform law discussed above.  

Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related preventative services and treatments/therapies. Recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our products. For example, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released by ACOG in November 2009 and guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, known as the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. However, the USPSTF recommendations now also include HPV co-testing for certain patient populations, an update from their draft guidelines in October 2011.  

Over the last few years, there have been periodic significant fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The ongoing fluctuations of the value of the U.S. dollar, including the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets and may impact sales and profitability over time. Historically, a majority of our capital equipment sales to international dealers were denominated in U.S. dollars. However, more sales are now denominated in the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar for our Euro zone dealers. In addition, we have international sales, principally in our Diagnostics segment, that are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these sales is also impacted by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar. Given the uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets, foreign currency fluctuations may be significant in the future, and if the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen, we may experience a material adverse effect on our international revenues and operating results.  

45  

Table of Contents 

ACQUISITIONS  

Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions:  

Gen-Probe Incorporated  

On August 1, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Gen-Probe and acquired all of the outstanding shares of Gen-Probe. Pursuant to the merger agreement, each share of common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the acquisition was cancelled and converted into the right to receive $82.75 in cash. In addition, all outstanding restricted shares, restricted stock units, performance shares, and those stock options granted prior to February 8, 2012 were cancelled and converted into the right to receive $82.75 per share in cash less the applicable exercise price, as applicable. Stock options granted after February 8, 2012 were cancelled and converted into stock options to acquire shares of Hologic common stock determined by a conversion formula defined in the merger agreement. The total purchase price was $3.97 billion, which was funded through available cash and financing consisting of senior secured credit facilities and senior notes resulting in aggregate proceeds of $3.48 billion, net of discounts.  

Gen-Probe, headquartered in San Diego, California, is a leader in molecular diagnostics products and services that are used primarily to diagnose human diseases, screen donated human blood, and test transplant compatibility. We expect this acquisition to enhance our molecular diagnostics franchise and to complement our existing portfolio of diagnostics products. Gen-Probe’s results of operations are reported within our Diagnostics reporting segment from the date of acquisition.  

The preliminary allocation of the purchase price is based on estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of August 1, 2012. We are continuing to obtain information to complete our valuation of intangible assets, as well as to determine the acquired assets and liabilities, including tax assets and liabilities. The purchase price has been allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on management’s estimate of their fair values. Certain of Gen-Probe’s assets have been designated as assets held-for-sale and recorded at fair value less the estimated cost to sell such assets. These represent non-core assets to the Company’s business plan and are expected to be sold within one year of the acquisition.  

As part of the purchase price allocation, the Company has determined the identifiable intangible assets are developed technology of $1.57 billion, in-process research and development of $227.0 million, customer contracts of $585.0 million, and trade names of $97.0 million. The fair value of the intangible assets has been estimated using the income approach, specifically the excess earning method and relief from royalty method, and the cash flow projections were discounted using rates ranging from 10% to 12%. The cash flows are based on estimates used to price the transaction, and the discount rates applied were benchmarked with reference to the implied rate of return from the transaction model and the weighted average cost of capital.  

The developed technology assets comprise know-how, patents and technologies embedded in Gen-Probe’s products and relate to currently marketed products and related instrument automation. In valuing the developed technology assets consideration was only given to products that have received regulatory approval. In-process research and development projects relate to in-process projects that have not reached technological feasibility as of the acquisition date and have no alternative future use. The primary basis for determining technological feasibility of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying product, which primarily pertains to receiving approval to perform certain diagnostic testing on Gen-Probe’s instrumentation, such as the PANTHER and TIGRIS systems. The Company recorded $227.0 million of in-process research and development projects related to six projects. One project, valued at $7.0 million, received FDA approval in October 2012. The other projects are expected to be completed within the next 3 months to 45 months with a total estimated cost of approximately $54.2 million to complete such projects. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot assure that any of our product development efforts will be successful, completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. All of the in-process research and development assets were valued using the multiple-period excess earnings method approach using a discount rate of 12.0%.  

The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the tangible net assets and intangible assets acquired of $1.65 billion was recorded to goodwill. The factors contributing to the recognition of the amount of goodwill are based on several strategic and synergistic benefits that are expected to be realized from the Gen-Probe acquisition. These benefits include the expectation that the combined company’s complementary products in the molecular diagnostics market with Gen-Probe’s fully automated product franchise will significantly broaden the Company’s offering in women’s health and diagnostics. The combined company should benefit from a broader global presence and with Hologic’s direct sales force and marketing in Europe and its investment in China distribution, the growth prospects of Gen-Probe’s products are expected to be enhanced significantly. The combined company anticipates significant cross-selling opportunities within the diagnostics market through Hologic’s larger channel coverage and physician sales team. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Gen-Probe’s revenue and pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the period from the acquisition date to September 29, 2012 were $89.5 million and $47.7 million, respectively.  

Fiscal 2011 Acquisitions:  

TCT International Co., Ltd.  

On June 1, 2011, we acquired TCT International Co., Ltd. (“TCT”), a privately-held distributor of medical products, including our ThinPrep Pap Test, related instruments and other diagnostic and surgical products. TCT’s operating subsidiaries are located in Beijing, China. Our acquisition of TCT enabled us to obtain an established nationwide sales organization and customer support infrastructure in China as we execute on our strategy to expand internationally. The purchase price was $148.4 million. In addition, the majority of the former shareholders of TCT may receive two annual contingent earn-out payments (subject to adjustment) not to exceed $200.0 million less a deferred payment of $35.0 million, which was made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Subsequent to the acquisition date, our results of operations include the results of TCT, which are primarily reported within our Diagnostics reporting segment and to a lesser extent within our GYN Surgical reporting segment.  

The allocation of the purchase price was based upon estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of June 1, 2011. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets comprised of customer relationships of $45.8 million, business licenses of $2.5 million and trade names of $2.1 million, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on projections and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed of $75.2 million was allocated to goodwill.   

The contingent earn-out payments are based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth for the one year periods beginning January 1, 2011 and January 1, 2012 as compared to the respective prior year periods, and are payable after the first and second anniversaries from the date of acquisition, respectively. Since these payments are contingent on future employment, they are being recognized as compensation expense ratably over the required service periods, the first and second year anniversaries from the date of acquisition. Based on actual and projected revenues for the TCT business, we recorded compensation expense of $75.5 million and $17.6 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The first earn-out period was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and we paid $54 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. As of September 29, 2012, we had accrued $39.1 million for the second contingent earn-out payment.  

Interlace Medical, Inc.  

On January 6, 2011, we acquired Interlace Medical, Inc. (“Interlace”), a privately-held company located in Framingham, Massachusetts. Interlace is the developer, manufacturer and supplier of MyoSure. The purchase price was comprised of $126.8 million in cash, which was net of certain adjustments, plus two annual contingent payments up to a maximum of an additional $225.0 million in cash. Subsequent to the acquisition date, our results of operations include the results of Interlace, which has been integrated within our GYN Surgical reporting segment.  

The allocation of the purchase price was based upon estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of January 6, 2011. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets comprised of developed technology of $158.7 million and trade names of $1.8 million, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on projections and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed of $88.1 million was allocated to goodwill.  

The agreement includes an indemnification provision that provides for the reimbursement of a portion of legal expenses in defense of the Interlace intellectual property. We have the right to collect certain amounts set aside in escrow from the initial consideration and, as applicable, offset contingent consideration payments of qualifying legal costs.  

The contingent payments are based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during a two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. Pursuant to ASC 805, Business Combinations, we recorded this liability at its estimated fair value based on future revenue projections of the Interlace business under various potential scenarios and weighted probability assumptions of these outcomes. As of the date of acquisition, these cash flow projections were discounted using a rate of 15.6%, based on the weighted-average cost of capital of the acquired business plus a credit risk premium for non-performance risk related to the liability pursuant to ASC 820. This analysis resulted in an initial contingent consideration liability of $86.6 million, which is being adjusted periodically as a component of operating expenses based on changes in the fair value of the liability due to the accretion of the liability for the time value of money and changes in the assumptions pertaining to the achievement of the defined revenue growth milestones. This fair  

47  

Table of Contents 

 value measurement is based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the first measurement period lapsed resulting in a total contingent consideration amount recorded for this period of $51.8 million, which was disbursed to the former shareholders of Interlace net of amounts withheld for certain legal indemnification purposes. We recorded charges of $41.8 million and $6.3 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability. As of September 29, 2012, we had accrued $83.0 million for the second measurement period contingent payment.  

Beijing Healthcome Technology Company, Ltd.  

On July 19, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Beijing Healthcome Technology Company, Ltd. (“Healthcome”), a privately-held manufacturer of medical equipment, including mammography equipment, located in Beijing, China. Healthcome develops and manufactures analog mammography products targeted to lower tier hospital segments in China. Subsequent to the acquisition, we worked to integrate our selenium detector technology into the Healthcome mammography system, and on December 21, 2011, we received SFDA approval in China for our Serenity digital mammography system. We began selling this product in China in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and intend to commercialize it throughout Asia and potentially other emerging markets in the future.  

The purchase price was $8.8 million in cash. In addition, we were obligated to make future payments to the shareholders, who remain employed, up to an additional $7.1 million over three years. Since these payments were contingent on future employment, they were being recognized as compensation expense ratably over the respective service periods. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we and the former shareholders agreed that the former shareholders would terminate their employment. We agreed to pay the majority of the contingent consideration in accordance with the original payment terms. As a result, we accelerated the unearned compensation in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and recorded compensation expense of $5.6 million in fiscal 2012 compared to $0.3 million in fiscal 2011.  

Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions:  

Sentinelle Medical Inc.  

On August 5, 2010, we acquired Sentinelle Medical Inc. (“Sentinelle Medical”), a privately held company located in Toronto, Canada. The purchase price was comprised of an $84.8 million cash payment, which was net of certain adjustments, plus three contingent payments over a two-year period up to a maximum of an additional $250.0 million in cash. Sentinelle Medical results are reported within our Breast Health reporting segment.   

The allocation of the purchase price was based upon estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of August 5, 2010. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets aggregating $67.6 million, primarily comprised of developed technology of $60.9 million and in-process research and development projects of $4.8 million, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on projections and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed of $48.6 million was allocated to goodwill.  

The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represented the estimated fair value of in-process projects based on risk-adjusted cash flows utilizing a discount rate of 17%. These in-process projects had not yet reached technological feasibility as of the date of acquisition and had no future alternative uses. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. We received FDA approval for both projects in fiscal 2011.  

The contingent payments were based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during the two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. Pursuant to ASC 805, we recorded an estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability based on future revenue projections of the Sentinelle Medical business under various potential scenarios and weighted probability assumptions of these outcomes. This analysis resulted in an initial contingent consideration liability of $29.5 million, which was adjusted periodically as a component of operating expenses based on changes in fair value of the liability driven by the accretion of the liability for the time value of money and changes in the assumptions pertaining to the achievement of the defined revenue growth milestones. This fair value measurement is based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820. Quarterly, we re-evaluated our assumptions and updated the revenue and probability assumptions for future earn-out periods and lowered our projections. As a result of these adjustments, we recorded a reversal of expense of $3.4 million and $14.3 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, to record the contingent consideration liability at fair value. The first two earn-out periods were completed and paid prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, and the third earn-out period ended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. We have accrued payment of $3.4 million for this final payment as of September 29, 2012.  

48  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in thousands.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal Year Ended September 29, 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2011  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2012, Breast Health product revenues increased 4% compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the increase in our breast biopsy products revenue of $18.5 million as a result of an increase in the number of Eviva and Celero biopsy devices sold in the United States. In addition, our digital mammography systems revenue increased $1.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily attributable to an increase in the number of units sold of both of our 2D and 3D Dimensions products worldwide, partially offset by slightly lower average selling prices internationally in the current year. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues from the  

49  

Table of Contents 

 Dimensions systems was a decrease in the number of Selenia systems sold worldwide, and to a lesser extent, a slight deterioration of average selling prices, and a continued shift in Selenia product mix and configuration differences. We are selling more Selenia Performance models, which have fewer features than our base Selenia model, which is a full-featured model, and carry lower average selling prices. In addition, we sold more Selenia systems internationally as a percentage of total Selenia systems, and average selling prices are lower in our international markets compared to the domestic market. We expect the shift in sales from our Selenia products to our Dimensions products to continue. We also had an additional $5.0 million in revenue in fiscal 2012 from our new Trident product.  

Diagnostics product sales increased 25% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which contributed $86.7 million in revenue, and an increase of $29.7 million in ThinPrep pap tests revenue. The ThinPrep increase was principally from an increase in the sales price of ThinPrep in China as well as higher volumes from the inclusion of revenues of TCT (our former distributor in that country acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011), and to a lesser extent, an increase in the number of ThinPrep pap tests sold in other international markets, partially offset by a decline in domestic units sold. The inclusion of Gen-Probe’s results is partially impacted by the Novartis collaboration. Pursuant to the collaboration, a portion of Gen-Probe’s revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by Novartis, however, Gen-Probe recognizes the full product cost upon shipment. As a result, amounts to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Novartis’ customers as of the acquisition date were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting and are not recorded as revenue in our results of operations. In fiscal 2012, this contingent revenue of $11.6 million was not recognized in our results of operations. We also experienced growth in our legacy molecular diagnostics products, which contributed a revenue increase of $13.5 million in fiscal 2012 as we continue to gain new customer accounts and unit sales to existing customers and increase our international sales through TCT. In addition, in fiscal 2012, we sold more diagnostics instruments internationally, increasing revenue by $4.8 million. Revenues also increased slightly due to the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2012 was a 53-week year compared to fiscal 2011, which was a 52-week year.  

GYN surgical product sales increased 4% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the inclusion of the MyoSure system, which contributed an increase of $29.7 million of revenue in fiscal 2012, partially offset by a decrease in NovaSure devices revenue of $9.0 million in fiscal 2012. In addition, revenues also increased slightly due to the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. While we experienced an increase in the number of NovaSure devices sold internationally, these increases were more than offset by a decline in the number of NovaSure devices sold domestically, and lower average selling prices driven by product mix and more international sales. We believe the decline in the number of NovaSure devices sold in the United States is primarily attributable to the continuing effect of unemployment and economic uncertainty, which has resulted in patients delaying surgery or opting for lower cost and generally less effective alternatives. In addition, Adiana system revenues declined $10.9 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The reduction in Adiana system revenues was due to our decision to cease manufacturing, marketing and selling the product as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012, determining it was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future.  

Skeletal Health product sales increased 5% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increase of $2.6 million of our mini C-arm systems as a result of our new Insight system introduced in 2012, and an increase of $1.0 million in osteoporosis assessment product sales internationally.  

In fiscal 2012, 73% of product sales were generated in the United States, 12% in Europe, 9% in Asia-Pacific, and 6% in other international markets. In fiscal 2011, 76% of product sales were generated in the United States, 13% in Europe, 6% in Asia-Pacific, and 5% in other international markets.  

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. Service and other revenues increased 11% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily in our Breast Health business due to an increase in the number of service contracts driven by an increase in our installed base of our digital mammography systems, which are no longer under warranty, and an extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Product sales gross margin decreased to 51% in fiscal 2012 compared to 53% in fiscal 2011 as discussed below.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales was 37% in fiscal 2012 compared to 35% in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012 cost of product sales as a percentage of product revenues increased in GYN Surgical and Diagnostics, declined slightly in Breast Health and remained relatively flat in Skeletal Health compared to fiscal 2011 resulting in an overall lower gross margin rate in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.  

The GYN Surgical gross margin rate in fiscal 2012 declined primarily due to charges of $19.1 million related to our decision to shut down our Adiana product line. On April 30, 2012, we announced that we were ceasing to manufacture, market and sell the Adiana system, determining that the product was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future. The charge related to the write-off of inventory, manufacturing equipment and equipment at customer sites, and contractual purchase orders for which there was no expected future use of the materials and components. In addition, lower sales of the NovaSure system resulted in a lower gross margin rate, which was partially offset by the shift of sales to our MyoSure system compared to lower margin Adiana system sales. For additional information pertaining to the Adiana product line discontinuance charges, please refer to Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

The Diagnostics’ gross margin rate in fiscal 2012 declined compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe results, which included $19.9 million of additional costs related to the sale of acquired inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting, higher service costs and depreciation of equipment at customer sites, and distribution costs. Gen-Probe’s gross margin since acquisition was lower than its historical gross margin rate due to the purchase accounting effect on our collaboration agreement with Novartis in our blood screening business. Based on the Novartis collaboration terms, a portion of Gen-Probe’s revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by Novartis, however, Gen-Probe recognizes the full product cost upon shipment. As a result, amounts to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Novartis’ customers as of the acquisition date were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting and are not recorded as revenue in our results of operations. In fiscal 2012, this contingent revenue of $11.6 million was not recognized in our results of operations. Partially offsetting these cost increases were higher ThinPrep pap test volumes resulting in lower fixed overhead costs per unit, favorable manufacturing variances, and the increase in sales price in China attributable to our acquisition of TCT.  

In fiscal 2012, Breast Health’s gross margin rate increased slightly compared to fiscal 2011. The gross margin rate for our digital mammography systems increased due to higher sales of our 3D Dimensions systems, which have higher average selling prices and gross margins than our Selenia systems, and an increase in 3D tomosynthesis software upgrades. Partially offsetting the improvement was an increase in Selenia Performance systems sales as a percent of total Selenia system sales compared to the prior year. Our Selenia Performance systems have lower gross margins than our full-featured Selenia systems. We also sold more Selenia systems internationally as a percentage of total Selenia systems where average selling prices are lower compared to the domestic market. Also offsetting the overall increase in Breast Health’s gross margin was the sales mix within our breast biopsy products as we sold more Eviva disposables and less ATEC disposables as a percentage of revenue compared to the prior year. Eviva disposables have a lower gross margin than our ATEC disposables because they have a higher manufacturing cost and carry additional royalty charges.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology and patents. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 20 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 is primarily due to the inclusion of technology assets acquired in our Gen-Probe acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and from our Interlace acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. In addition, there was an increase in amortization expense due to the method of recognition based on the expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc merger in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Amortization was also higher due to the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues gross margin was 45% in fiscal 2012 compared to 46% in fiscal 2011. Gross margin decreased due to additional expenses incurred related to international expansion, which has resulted in the hiring of additional service personnel, increasing compensation and travel costs worldwide. In addition, service costs have increased in our Diagnostics segment due to an increase in our installed base of ThinPrep processors and imagers.  

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which accounted for $17.1 million of additional expenses. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease in compensation and benefits due to lower bonus expenses, and a reduction in clinical trials and regulatory costs, which was primarily a result of the status and timing of projects. Research and development primarily reflects spending on new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research and trials. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary period to period.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. These increases were primarily due to additional expenses from the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which accounted for $8.4 million of additional expense, and the inclusion of TCT for a full year, an increase in the number of sales personnel in the GYN Surgical business segment, an increase in compensation and benefits and higher commissions, continuing product launch activities related to our 3D Dimensions product, and higher travel expenses. These expenses were also higher due to the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The increase in fiscal 2012 was partially offset by lower expenditures for our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for NovaSure.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 39% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to higher acquisition related transaction costs associated with the Gen-Probe acquisition of $34.3 million, additional expenses, including retention costs, from the inclusion of Gen-Probe of $12.8 million, integration and consulting costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition, an increase in bad debt expense internationally, charges for an ongoing state sales tax audit, an increase in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, or DCP, liability, which is driven by the underlying market changes of hypothetical investments, and higher invoice collection fees from higher credit card payments. These expenses were also higher due to  

52  

Table of Contents 

 the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. These increases were partially offset by an overall decrease in compensation and benefits due to lower bonus expense and lower stock compensation expense as higher valued restricted stock units fully vested in fiscal 2011 and lower depreciation expense.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, business licenses and non-compete agreements related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The increase in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the addition of intangible assets from the Gen-Probe acquisition, a full year of amortization from the Interlace and TCT acquisitions, and an increase in amortization due to the method of recognition based on the expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc merger in fiscal 2008. Amortization was also higher due to the extra week in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.  

Contingent Consideration—Compensation Expense. In connection with our recent acquisitions, excluding Gen-Probe, we are obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. Amounts recorded in this financial statement line item are those contingent payments that are contingent on future employment. These payments are also generally based on achieving certain performance milestones, typically incremental revenue growth, as is the case for TCT. The amounts recorded in fiscal 2012 relate to TCT and, to a lesser extent, Healthcome. Amounts recorded in fiscal 2011 primarily relate to TCT and Interlace. We recorded charges of $81.0 million and $20.0 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. For additional information, refer to the prior section titled “Acquisitions” and to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Contingent Consideration—Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with our acquisitions of Sentinelle Medical and Interlace, we may be required to pay future consideration that is contingent on achieving certain revenue based milestones. As of each respective acquisition date, we recorded contingent consideration liabilities for the estimated fair value of the amount we expected to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business. This liability is not contingent on future employment and is based on future revenue projections of the respective businesses under various potential scenarios and weighted probability assumptions of these outcomes. At each reporting period, we re-measure the fair value of these liabilities and record the changes in fair value through a separate line item within our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from accretion of the liability for the passage of time, changes in discount rates, and changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates. In fiscal 2012, we recorded a net charge of $38.5 million reflecting an increase in the fair value of the Interlace liability of $41.8 million due to higher revenue estimates, partially offset by a benefit of $3.4 million related to Sentinelle Medical due to actual revenues being less than those estimated. We recorded a net benefit of $8.0 million in fiscal 2011 reflecting a net decrease in the fair values of these liabilities comprised of a reduction in the fair value of the Sentinelle Medical liability of $14.3 million due primarily to changes in revenue assumptions offset by a charge of $6.3 million related to Interlace based primarily on the accretion of the liability to the expected payment amount. For additional information, refer to the prior section titled “Acquisitions” and to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $5.8 million related to our MammoSite reporting unit, which is included in our Breast Health segment. The fair value of this reporting unit declined from fiscal 2011 primarily due to our reassessment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of the overall market size of breast brachytherapy and long-term growth projections. No other reporting units were deemed to be impaired in fiscal 2012. For additional information, refer to Note 2—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property, Net. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we received a scheduled payment of $12.5 million from K-V Pharmaceutical Company (“KV”) pursuant to our amended agreement, which was recorded net of amounts owed to the original inventor of Makena. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we received FDA approval of Makena, and all rights to Makena were transferred to KV. Upon transfer, we received $12.5 million, and including the $79.5 million received in prior periods, we recorded a gain on the sale of intellectual property, net of the write-off of certain assets, of $84.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. For additional information on this arrangement and amounts we may receive in the future, refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we acquired certain research and development assets that were determined to have no future alternative use and recorded a $4.5 million charge within our GYN Surgical segment.  

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges, Net. In fiscal 2012, we recorded aggregate restructuring and divestiture charges of $36.6 million of which $17.5 million was recorded in this line item, and $19.1 million was recorded in cost of product sales. These charges are related to a number of actions in fiscal 2012 as described below. For additional information pertaining to restructuring and divesture charges, please refer to Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Abandonment of Adiana Product Line  

At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we decided to cease manufacturing, marketing and selling our Adiana system, which was a product line within our GYN Surgical reporting segment. We determined that the product was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future. In addition, we settled the intellectual property litigation regarding the Adiana system with Conceptus as discussed below under “Contingent Earn-Out Payments.” As a result, in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we recorded a charge of $18.3 million and recorded additional adjustments in fiscal 2012 resulting in an aggregate charge of $19.5 million. Of the total charge, $19.1 million was recorded within cost of product sales and $0.4 million was recorded in restructuring. The amount recorded in cost of product sales comprised of impairment charges of $9.9 million to record inventory at its net realizable value, $6.5 million to write down certain manufacturing equipment and equipment placed at customer sites to its fair value that had no further utility, and $2.7 million for outstanding contractual purchase orders of raw materials and components that will not be utilized and other contractual obligations. In connection with this action, we terminated certain manufacturing and other personnel primarily at our Costa Rica location, resulting in severance charges of $0.1 million, and incurred other contractual charges of $0.3 million. All identified employees were terminated and paid as of September 29, 2012.  

Consolidation of Diagnostics Operations  

In connection with our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we implemented restructuring actions to consolidate our Diagnostics business, such as streamlining product development initiatives, reducing overlapping functional areas such as sales, marketing and general and administrative functions, and consolidation of manufacturing resources, field services and support. As a result, we terminated certain employees from Gen-Probe and our legacy diagnostics business in research and development, sales, marketing and general and administrative functions. We recorded severance and benefit charges of $13.3 million related to this action pursuant to ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. The majority of these employees ceased working in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and their full severance charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. In addition, certain of the terminated Gen-Probe employees had unvested stock options and their vesting terms were accelerated as a result of termination. As such, the severance charges include $3.5 million of stock-based compensation expense. We expect to record an additional $1.1 million for severance and benefits in fiscal 2013.  

In addition, we will move our legacy molecular diagnostics operations from Madison, Wisconsin to San Diego, California. This transfer is expected to be finalized by the end of calendar 2014 and the majority of employees in Madison will be terminated in fiscal 2013 and 2014. We are recording severance and benefit charges pursuant to ASC 420 and estimate the total severance and benefits charge to be approximately $6.4 million, which will be recorded ratably over the estimated service period of the affected employees. We recorded $1.5 million in fiscal 2012 related to this action, which was comprised of $0.9 million for severance benefits and a $0.6 million non-cash charge as a result of exiting certain research projects. Additional charges will be recorded as the manufacturing operation is transferred and the facility is closed down. These charges will be recorded as they are incurred.  

Closure of Indianapolis Facility  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we finalized our decision to transfer production of our interventional breast products from our Indianapolis facility to our facility in Costa Rica. The transfer is expected to be completed in the first half of calendar 2014 and all employees at that location will be terminated. We are recording severance and benefit charges pursuant to ASC 420 and estimate the total severance and benefits charge to be approximately $7.0 million, which will be recorded ratably over the estimated service period of the affected employees. We recorded $1.8 million in fiscal 2012 related to this action comprised of $0.9 million of severance benefits and $0.9 million for amounts owed to the state of Indiana for employment credits. Additional charges will be recorded as the manufacturing operation is transferred and the facility is closed down. These charges will be recorded as they are incurred.  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to a higher average cash balance in fiscal 2012, prior to the Gen-Probe acquisition.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2012, interest expense increased due to the financing to fund the Gen-Probe acquisition on August 1, 2012. We borrowed an aggregate of $3.5 billion in principal comprised of term loans and Senior Notes. Interest expense also includes the interest costs and amortization of the debt discount of our Convertible Notes and amortization of deferred financing costs. As a result of our additional borrowings totaling $3.5 billion to fund a portion of the purchase price for Gen-Probe, we expect interest expense to be significantly higher in fiscal 2013.  

Debt Extinguishment Loss.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, pursuant to separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements, we retired $500.0 million in aggregate principal of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 (“2007 Notes”) for $500.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Notes due 2042 (“2012 Notes”). This exchange enabled us to extend the first put date out approximately four and a quarter years to March 1, 2018 as well as the subsequent put dates as disclosed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis. In consideration, the equity conversion price of the notes was reduced to approximately $31.18 from $38.59, and we must pay the cash coupon for four and a quarter more years, consistent with extending the first put date, instead of accreting the coupon to the principal as required under the original terms. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $42.3 million, which includes the write-off of the pro-rata allocation of deferred financing costs.  

In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements, we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our 2007 Notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 (“2010 Notes”). This exchange enabled us to extend the first put date out three years to December 15, 2016 from December 13, 2013 as well as the subsequent put dates as disclosed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis. In consideration, the equity conversion price of the notes was reduced to $23.03 from $38.59, and we must pay the cash coupon for three more years, consistent with extending the first put date, instead of accreting the coupon to the principal as required under the original terms. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $29.9 million, which includes the write-off of the pro-rata allocation of deferred financing costs. For additional information, refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Other Income (Expense), net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2012, this account was primarily comprised of gains on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our DCP of $3.2 million, net foreign currency transaction gains of $0.8 million, and other miscellaneous gains.  

In fiscal 2011, this account was primarily comprised of impairment charges of $2.4 million for cost-method investments, net foreign currency transaction losses of $1.1 million and a loss on cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our DCP of $0.8 million.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

55  

Table of Contents 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 19.4% of pre-tax losses compared to 30.9% of pre-tax earnings in fiscal 2011. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 was significantly impacted by non-deductible contingent consideration compensation expense, nondeductible acquisition costs, a nondeductible goodwill impairment charge, and a net increase in income tax reserves and valuation allowances on certain foreign losses. The unfavorable tax impact of these items was partially offset by the domestic manufacturing benefit and a loss claimed related to the discontinuance of the Adiana product line. The effect of these permanent items to the effective tax rate was magnified by the current year pre-tax loss. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was less than the statutory rate primarily due to reversing income tax reserves, the domestic manufacturing benefit and U.S. and Canadian research and development tax credits. The $9.1 million income tax reserve reversal was due to us favorably settling our U.S. federal income tax audit for fiscal years 2007 through 2009 and statutes of limitations expiring in several state and foreign jurisdictions.  

Segment Results of Operations  

We report our business as four segments: Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.  

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 due to the increase in product revenue of $22.4 million discussed above and a $27.8 million increase in service revenues.  

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increase in operating expenses partially offset by an increase in gross margin on an absolute dollar basis as a result of increased revenues discussed above.  

In fiscal 2012, the overall gross margin rate increased to 49.4% from 49.0% in fiscal 2011 due primarily to improvements in product gross margin discussed above. The product gross margin rate increased to 49.9% in fiscal 2012 compared to 48.7% in fiscal 2011. Operating expenses were higher in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the net benefit of $14.3 million recorded in the prior year compared to the $3.4 million benefit in the current year to adjust the Sentinelle Medical contingent consideration liability to fair value, higher contingent compensation expense of $5.6 million related to Healthcome in fiscal 2012, the Mammosite goodwill impairment charge of $5.8 million, and restructuring charges of $2.3 million primarily related to our decision to close our facility in Indianapolis. In addition, expenses were higher in the current year due to higher compensation costs related to hiring additional personnel, continuing product launch activities related to our 3D Dimensions product, medical education, travel, and litigation settlements and related expenses, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses.  

Diagnostics.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the net gain of $84.5 million on the sale of Makena intellectual property to KV in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to a net gain of $12.4 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 for a scheduled payment received under the amended agreement. The balance of the decrease in fiscal 2012 of $131.4 million was due to higher operating expenses partially offset by an increase in gross margin in  

56  

Table of Contents 

 absolute dollars. While gross margin in absolute dollars increased, the gross margin rate declined to 50.5% in fiscal 2012 compared to 53.9% in fiscal 2011 as discussed above. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of TCT for a full year, which included an increase in contingent consideration compensation expense of $58.0 million, the inclusion of $42.4 million of operating expenses for Gen-Probe (excluding restructuring charges and integration and retention costs), acquisition transaction and integration costs of approximately $42.0 million related to the Gen-Probe transaction, and restructuring charges of $14.8 million related to the consolidation of our Diagnostics business as a result of the Gen-Probe acquisition. We also experienced higher expenses related to trade shows, higher compensation costs related to hiring additional personnel and annual salary increases, travel, and higher bad debt charges, primarily related to one international customer.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

This business segment incurred an operating loss in fiscal 2012 compared to income in fiscal 2011 primarily attributable to the inclusion of Interlace’s operations (acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011), which included a charge of $41.8 million in fiscal 2012 to adjust the contingent consideration liability to fair value compared to aggregate contingent consideration charges of $8.4 million in fiscal 2011, and the aggregate charge of $19.5 million related to the Adiana product line discontinuance. Overall, gross margin in absolute dollars decreased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the Adiana product line charge recorded in cost of product sales of $19.1 million, and higher intangible asset amortization expense of $9.2 million, partially offset by the impact of higher sales as discussed above. This resulted in the segment’s gross margin rate declining to 50.3% in fiscal 2012 from 56.8% in fiscal 2011.  

In addition, this segment incurred higher operating expenses in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily in sales and marketing related to higher compensation and benefits for additional sales personnel, annual salary increases and commissions, and higher travel, an in-process research and development charge of $4.5 million, higher intangible asset amortization expenses, additional expenditures for ongoing research and development projects and charges related to an ongoing state sales tax audit. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in advertising expenditures for our NovaSure system’s direct-to-consumer advertising campaign and lower marketing and medical education expenses related to the discontinuance of the Adiana product line.  

Skeletal Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income increased slightly in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the increase in revenues and improvement in gross margin rates to 44.1% in fiscal 2012 from 43.5% in fiscal 2011. The improvement in gross margin dollars was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses primarily due to higher compensation and benefits and travel expenses.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 25, 2010  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2011, our product sales increased $63.4 million, or 4%, compared to fiscal 2010 due to an increase in revenues of $24.5 million from Breast Health, $17.8 million from GYN Surgical, $17.5 million from Diagnostics, and $3.7 million from Skeletal Health.  

Breast Health product sales increased 5% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to growth in our breast biopsy products of $16.8 million, the inclusion of a full year of revenues from Sentinelle Medical (acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010), which increased $12.9 million, and a favorable foreign currency impact of $3.4 million. The increase in breast biopsy products revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of Eviva biopsy devices sold with the largest increase in the U.S. Overall, our digital mammography systems revenues decreased $2.9 million in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. We experienced a decrease in the number of Selenia systems sold worldwide, and to a lesser extent, Selenia product mix and configuration differences resulted in lower revenues in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. We sold a greater number of our Selenia value-related models and a lesser amount of our full featured Selenia models in fiscal 2011. Our value-related models have lower average selling prices than our full featured Selenia models. In addition, we sold more Selenia systems internationally as a percentage of total Selenia systems and average selling prices are lower in our international markets compared to the domestic market. Mostly offsetting these decreases was an increase in the number of units sold of our new 2D/3D Dimensions products as these systems continue to gain traction. These systems also have higher average selling prices than our Selenia systems.  

Diagnostics product sales increased 3% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Cervista HPV tests, the inclusion of TCT (acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011) resulting in incremental revenues of approximately $10 million, a favorable foreign currency impact of $5.2 million and to a lesser extent an increase in the number of ThinPrep pap tests sold internationally, partially offset by a reduction in domestic sales. Cervista HPV revenues have increased as we continue to gain new customer accounts and unit sales to existing customers increase. We believe the decline in the number of ThinPrep pap tests sold domestically was due to the decline in patient visits year over year attributable to the lagging effects of unemployment, continuing economic uncertainty, recent changes in cervical cancer screening guidelines to extend the recommended intervals between such screenings, and to a lesser extent laboratory consolidation.  

GYN Surgical product sales increased 6% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to an increase in the number of Adiana systems sold and the inclusion of MyoSure system sales (acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011). NovaSure system sales were essentially flat year over year. While we experienced an increase in the number of NovaSure devices sold internationally and to a lesser extent a slight increase in average selling prices, these increases were offset by a decline in the number of NovaSure devices sold domestically. We believe the decline in units sold domestically was primarily due to the lagging effects of unemployment and continuing economic uncertainty, which has resulted in patients delaying surgery and opting for lower cost and generally less effective alternatives.  

Skeletal Health product sales increased 6% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to a $6.0 million increase in osteoporosis assessment product sales worldwide. Offsetting this increase in fiscal 2011 was a reduction in mini C-arm revenues of $2.1 million due to a decrease in the number of units sold domestically and slightly lower average selling prices in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.  

In fiscal 2011, 76% of product sales were generated in the United States, 13% in Europe, 6% in Asia-Pacific, and 5% in other international markets. In fiscal 2010, 79% of product sales were generated in the United States, 12% in Europe, 5% in Asia-Pacific, and 4% in other international markets.  

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. Service and other revenues increased 18% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily in our Breast Health business due to an increase in the number of service contracts driven by an increase in our installed base of our digital mammography systems, which were no longer under warranty.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Product sales gross margin increased to 53% in fiscal 2011 compared to 45% in fiscal 2010 primarily due to the significant intangible asset charge of $123.4 million recorded in fiscal 2010 related to MammoSite.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales was 35% in fiscal 2011 compared to 34% in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2011, cost of product sales as a percentage of product revenues increased in Breast Health compared to fiscal 2010 and was relatively flat in Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health compared to fiscal 2010. The decline in Breast Health gross margin in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to $2.7 million of additional costs related to the sale of acquired Sentinelle Medical inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting, unfavorable absorption and higher production spend principally in the digital mammography product lines, and a mix shift in sales of our Selenia product line. Our Selenia value-related models have lower average selling prices and gross margins than our full featured Selenia models. In addition, we sold more Selenia systems internationally as a percentage of total Selenia systems, where our average selling prices are lower. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher sales of Dimensions 3D and 3D tomosynthesis software upgrades. The Dimensions 3D product has a higher average selling price and gross margin compared to our full-featured Selenia models. Within our breast biopsy products, the mix of products sold resulted in lower gross margins as we sold more Eviva disposables and less ATEC disposables as a percentage of revenue compared to fiscal 2010. Eviva disposables have a lower gross margin than our ATEC disposables because they have a higher manufacturing cost and carry additional royalty charges.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 20 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to the inclusion of additional amortization expense related to the technology assets acquired from the Sentinelle Medical and Interlace acquisitions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and second quarter of fiscal 2011, respectively. In addition, there was an increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2011 due to the method of recognition based on the expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc merger in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Offsetting this increase was a decline in amortization expense in fiscal 2011 related to our MammoSite reporting unit. We recorded an impairment charge for the MammoSite developed technology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, as discussed below, which resulted in a reduced asset value and lower future amortization expense.  

Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 in connection with our Company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, we identified indicators of impairment in our MammoSite reporting unit due to changing market conditions for the breast brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes from the continuing adverse macroeconomic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. These factors resulted in lowering our financial projections for MammoSite. We performed the first step in the long-lived assets impairment test and compared MammoSite’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its net assets, which indicated that these cash flows were insufficient to recover MammoSite’s carrying value. Therefore, we determined the fair value of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, which are primarily intangible assets, using a discounted cash flow technique. Based on the fair value of the long-lived assets, we recorded an impairment charge of $123.4 million to developed technology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. For additional information, refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues gross margin improved to 46% in fiscal 2011 compared to 39% in fiscal 2010 primarily due to the improved absorption of fixed service costs and the continued growth of service contract revenue, primarily in the Breast Health business. We were able to convert a high percentage of our domestic installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon the expiration of the warranty period. In addition, warranty costs decreased due to lower failure rates in certain of our products.  

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of additional expenses from Sentinelle Medical (acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010) and Interlace (acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011). In fiscal 2011, compensation and benefits increased due to an increase in headcount, annual salary increases, and higher bonuses based on improved company performance compared to the prior year. In addition, there was an increase in clinical trials and research projects spend primarily attributable to next generation NovaSure and Adiana products, partially offset by a reduction in clinical trial and project spend on the Dimensions 3D tomosynthesis product, which was approved by the FDA in February 2011. Research and development primarily reflects spending on new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research and trials.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 16% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. This increase was primarily due to additional expenses from the inclusion of Sentinelle Medical, Interlace and TCT, expenditures for our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for the NovaSure system, higher spending for other marketing and advertising initiatives including the Dimensions 3D product launch, increased compensation and benefits related to an increase in headcount, annual salary increases and higher bonuses based on improved company performance compared to the prior year, and medical education. Partially offsetting these increases were lower distributor and third-party commissions.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 7% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to additional expenses from the inclusion of Sentinelle Medical, Interlace and TCT, an increase in compensation and benefits primarily due to an increase in headcount, annual salary increases, higher bonuses due to improved company performance compared to the prior year, and additional expenses related to consummating our acquisitions and integrating them into our operations, including accounting and tax services. In fiscal 2011, these increases were partially offset by a decrease in litigation costs due to lower activity compared to fiscal 2010, in which a number of matters were resolved, primarily the Ethicon lawsuit.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, business licenses and non-compete agreements related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The increase in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was due to the addition of intangible assets from the Sentinelle Medical, Interlace and TCT acquisitions, and an increase in amortization due to the method of recognition based on the expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc merger in the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Contingent Consideration—Compensation Expense. In connection with our recent acquisitions, we are obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. Amounts recorded in this financial statement line item are those contingent payments that are contingent on future employment. These payments are also generally based on achieving certain performance milestones, typically incremental revenue growth, as is the case for TCT. The amounts recorded related to Interlace and Healthcome are solely related to continuing employment. In fiscal 2011, we recorded an aggregate charge of $20.0 million comprised of $17.6 million, $2.1 million and $0.3 million related to TCT, Interlace and Healthcome, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Contingent Consideration—Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with the purchase price allocation for our acquisitions of Sentinelle Medical and Interlace, we recorded an estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability for each acquisition as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. This liability is not contingent on future employment and is based on future revenue projections of the respective businesses under various potential scenarios and weighted probability assumptions of these outcomes. This analysis is updated quarterly and changes to the fair value of this liability are recorded in the statements of operations. As a result, we recorded a net benefit of $8.0 million in fiscal 2011 reflecting a net decrease in the fair values of these liabilities comprised of a reduction in the fair value of the Sentinelle Medical liability of $14.3 million due primarily to changes in revenue assumptions offset by a charge of $6.3 million related to Interlace based primarily on the accretion of the liability to the expected payment amount. For additional information, refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, in connection with performing our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process, we determined that there were indicators of impairment related to our MammoSite reporting unit, and we recorded intangible asset impairment charges discussed above and below. The fair value of this reporting unit declined from fiscal 2009 primarily due to our reassessment of the overall market size of breast brachytherapy and a reduction in long-term growth projections. After determining the fair values of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, other than goodwill, and writing these assets down to their fair values, we performed the 2-step goodwill impairment test for MammoSite. As a result of this analysis, we recorded a $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge. No other reporting units were deemed to be impaired in fiscal 2010. For additional information, refer to Note 2—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Impairment of Intangible Assets. As noted above under Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets, in fiscal 2010, we determined that the long-lived assets in the MammoSite reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this analysis, we recorded a $20.1 million charge in fiscal 2010 to write down customer relationships and trade name intangible assets to their fair values. For additional information, refer to Note 2—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property, Net. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we received FDA approval of Makena, formerly known as Gestiva, and all rights to Makena were transferred to KV pursuant to our agreement in which we sold the exclusive worldwide rights of Makena to KV. Upon transfer, we received $12.5 million, and including the $79.5 million received in prior years, we recorded a gain on the sale of intellectual property, net of the write-off of certain assets, of $84.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. For additional information on this arrangement and amounts we may receive in the future, refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Litigation Settlement Charges, Net. In fiscal 2011, we incurred a charge of $0.8 million relating to the settlement of insignificant cases. In fiscal 2010, we incurred litigation settlement charges of $11.4 million primarily relating to our litigation with Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (“Ethicon”). We had been engaged in litigation in which Ethicon had alleged patent infringement by our ATEC biopsy system of certain of their patents, and Ethicon had made similar claims with respect to our Eviva biopsy system. On February 17, 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with Ethicon, and all outstanding litigation between the parties was dismissed. In connection with the settlement agreement, we agreed to make a one-time payment to Ethicon of $12.5 million and ongoing royalties for sales of our ATEC and Eviva products, and Ethicon agreed to pay us ongoing royalties for sales of its Mammotome magnetic resonance imaging product.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Acquired In-Process Research and Development. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired certain assets that were determined to have no future alternative use and recorded a $2.0 million charge within our Diagnostics segment.  

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges, Net. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we terminated the employment of certain employees and recorded a severance benefits charge of $0.3 million, which was offset by a gain of $0.4 million related to the sale of an insignificant product line. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated the employment of certain employees in connection with completing the Sentinelle Medical acquisition and recorded severance and related benefit costs of $0.9 million. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we completed the sale of the capital stock of our organic photoconductor drum coating manufacturing operation in Shanghai, China for a net sales price of $3.8 million resulting in a loss on disposal of $0.3 million. As a result of previously closing this facility, we incurred additional net charges of $0.4 million in fiscal 2010.  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents.  

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2011, interest expense consisted primarily of the interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount of our Convertible Notes as well as the amortization of deferred financing costs. In fiscal 2010, in addition to the interest expense related to our Convertible Notes, we incurred interest costs and the amortization of deferred financing costs related to our senior secured credit agreement. The amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement were paid off in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and we terminated the agreement.  

Debt Extinguishment Loss.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements, we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our Convertible Notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037. This exchange enabled us to extend the first put date three years to December 15, 2016 from December 13, 2013 as well as the subsequent put dates as disclosed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis. In consideration, the equity conversion price of the notes was reduced to $23.03 from $38.60, and we must pay the cash coupon for three more years, consistent with extending the first put date, instead of accreting the coupon to the principal as required under the original terms. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $29.9 million, which includes the write-off of the pro-rata allocation of deferred financing costs. For additional information, refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Other (Expense) Income, net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2011, this account was primarily comprised of impairment charges of $2.4 million for cost-method investments, net foreign currency transaction losses of $1.1 million and a loss on cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan of $0.8 million, which is driven by the underlying changes in the stock market. In fiscal  

62  

Table of Contents 

 2010, this account was primarily comprised of an increase in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan of $1.3 million and an increase related to non-income tax related government credits of $0.8 million partially offset by an impairment charge of $1.1 million for a cost-method investment.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 30.9% of pre-tax earnings compared to 14.2% of the pre-tax loss in fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2011 was less than the statutory rate primarily due to the reversal of income tax reserves, the domestic manufacturing benefit, and U.S. and Canadian research and development tax credits. The $9.1 million income tax reserve reversal was due to us favorably settling our U.S. federal income tax audit for fiscal years 2007 through 2009 and the statute of limitations expiring in various state and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was significantly impacted by the $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter, substantially all of which was not deductible for tax purposes.  

Segment Results of Operations  

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to a $45.5 million increase in service revenues that was substantially related to additional service contracts for the increased number of digital mammography systems in our installed base and the increase in product revenues of $24.5 million discussed above.  

Operating income for this business segment increased $281.6 million in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to a $220.2 million intangible asset and goodwill impairment charge related to our MammoSite reporting unit recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 discussed above. The balance of the increase in fiscal 2011, $61.4 million, was primarily due to increased gross margin on an absolute dollar basis as a result of higher product and service revenues as discussed above and lower operating expenses. Overall the gross margin rate as a percentage of revenues increased to 49.0% in fiscal 2011 compared to 30.7% in fiscal 2010 primarily due to the $123.4 million impairment charge to MammoSite’s developed technology included in fiscal 2010. In addition, in fiscal 2011, there were improvements in service gross margins and lower intangible asset amortization expense resulting from the write-off of MammoSite intangibles in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, overall gross margin, excluding the impact of the MammoSite impairment charge, was 47.0%.  

Operating expenses for this business segment decreased $108.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the impact of the goodwill and intangible asset charge of $96.8 million recorded in operating expenses in fiscal 2010. Other operating expense decreases in fiscal 2011 included a net benefit of $14.3 million related to adjusting the Sentinelle Medical contingent consideration to fair value, lower clinical trials spending related to our Dimensions 3D tomosynthesis system, lower third-party commissions, lower intangible asset amortization from the write-off of MammoSite intangibles in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, and a decrease in litigation costs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we recorded a litigation settlement charge of $12.5 million as discussed above. Partially offsetting these operating expense decreases was the inclusion of a full year of expenses for Sentinelle Medical (acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010), and higher compensation costs related to hiring additional personnel, annual salary increases, higher bonuses due to improved company performance and higher sales commissions for our breast biopsy business.  

Diagnostics.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

63  

Table of Contents 

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the net gain of $84.5 million on the sale of the Makena intellectual property to KV in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 discussed above and an increase in gross margin in absolute dollars due to higher revenues. Gross margin rates were 53.9% and 53.4% in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. These increases were partially offset by higher operating expenses attributable to the inclusion of TCT (acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011) and related integration costs and contingent consideration compensation expense of $17.6 million, and higher compensation costs related to hiring additional personnel, annual salary increases, and higher bonuses due to improved company performance.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income decreased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the inclusion of Interlace’s operations (acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011), including intangible asset amortization expense, a charge of $6.3 million to adjust the Interlace contingent consideration liability to fair value and a charge of $2.1 million to record Interlace contingent consideration compensation expense as payments were tied to continuing employment. Overall, gross margin in absolute dollars decreased slightly in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. This segment’s gross margin rates declined to 56.8% compared to 61.0% in fiscal 2010, primarily due to higher intangible asset amortization expense. In addition, this segment incurred higher operating expenses, principally in sales and marketing for increased advertising of the NovaSure system, including expenditures related to our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign, an increase in compensation and benefits related to hiring additional personnel, annual salary increases, and higher bonuses due to improved company performance, increased amortization expense from intangible assets, and higher project expense on the development of next generation products. In addition, the first quarter of fiscal 2010 included the reversal of stock compensation due to the departure of a senior executive.  

Skeletal Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in revenues and improvement in gross margin rates to 43.5% compared to 42.4% in the prior year. Operating expenses remained relatively flat.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

At September 29, 2012, we had $901.7 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $560.4 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $151.9 million during fiscal 2012 due to funds used for the Gen-Probe acquisition  

64  

Table of Contents 

 and other investing activities primarily related to payments for contingent consideration, capital expenditures and placement of equipment under customer usage agreements. During fiscal 2012, our sources of funds included our borrowings of $3.48 billion to fund a portion of the purchase price for Gen-Probe, cash generated from operations and net proceeds from stock option exercises.  

In fiscal 2012, our operating activities provided us with $370.2 million of cash, which included a net loss of $73.6 million offset by non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $345.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $75.0 million related to our outstanding debt, a debt extinguishment loss of $42.3 million, stock-based compensation expense of $40.6 million, fair value adjustments of $38.5 million for our contingent consideration liabilities related to our Interlace and Sentinelle Medical acquisitions, fair value adjustments related to Gen-Probe acquired inventory sold of $19.9 million, non-cash restructuring charges of $16.9 million primarily related to our decision to discontinue selling our Adiana product, and a goodwill impairment charge of $5.8 million related to our MammoSite reporting unit. These adjustments to net loss were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $155.2 million, primarily the result of recapturing taxes from the debt extinguishment and amortization of intangible assets, and the gain on sale of intellectual property of $12.4 million. Cash provided by operations included a net cash inflow of $28.2 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by a reduction of prepaid expenses and other current assets of $69.8 million principally due to receiving tax withholding amounts recorded in Gen-Probe’s opening balance sheet in purchase accounting related to the pay-off of restricted stock units and shares and acceleration of stock options in connection with the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, deferred revenue increased $12.7 million as we continue to convert our increasing installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period, and we received net cash of $6.1 million from an income tax receivable acquired from Gen-Probe. Partially offsetting these cash inflows was a decrease in accrued expenses of $41.0 million, primarily due to payments of taxes withheld from equity awards in connection with the Gen-Probe acquisition, income taxes, and contingent consideration recorded as compensation expense, partially offset by compensation related accruals and interest on our debt. In addition, inventory increased $12.2 million primarily due to an increase in components on hand to support higher sales volume, the introduction of new products and last-time buys, and accounts receivable increased $11.0 million primarily due to higher revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.  

In fiscal 2012, we used $3.85 billion of cash for investing activities. This use of cash was primarily attributable to our purchase of Gen-Probe utilizing $3.76 billion, net of cash acquired. Cash used in investing also related to $78.8 million for purchases of property and equipment, which consisted primarily of the placement of equipment and instruments under customer usage agreements and manufacturing equipment and computer hardware, the payment of contingent consideration to the former shareholders of Adiana of $8.8 million, an increase in restricted cash of $5.2 million related to an international customer deposit, and the acquisition of in-process research and development assets of $4.5 million. Partially offsetting these uses of cash was the receipt of $12.5 million for a scheduled payment under our amended agreement in which we sold the rights to our Makena intellectual property to KV.  

In fiscal 2012, our financing activities provided us net cash of $3.33 billion, primarily reflecting our borrowings of $3.48 billion to fund our Gen-Probe acquisition, which was comprised of $2.48 billion of net proceeds under our Credit Agreement and $1.0 billion under our senior notes, which are described below, and cash proceeds from employee stock plans of $28.6 million. These financing proceeds were partially offset by payments for debt issuance costs of $81.4 million related to the Credit Agreement, Senior Notes and 2012 Notes, contingent consideration of $51.7 million related to our Interlace and Sentinelle acquisitions, deferred payments to the TCT shareholders of $44.2 million, and $5.7 million for employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units. Under ASC 805, the payment of contingent consideration recorded at fair value in purchase accounting as of the acquisition date is treated as a financing activity.  

Debt  

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $5.04 billion at September 29, 2012, which is comprised of our amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement of $2.48 billion (principal $2.5 billion), Senior Notes of $1.0 billion and Convertible Notes of $1.56 billion (principal $1.725 billion).  

Concurrent with closing the Gen-Probe acquisition, on August 1, 2012, we and certain domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”) entered into a credit and guaranty agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Goldman Sachs Bank USA, in its capacity as administrative and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto.  

The credit facilities under the Credit Agreement consist of:  

   •    $1.0 billion senior secured tranche A term loan (“Term Loan A”) with a final maturity date of August 1, 2017;  

   •    $1.5 billion secured tranche B term loan (“Term Loan B”) with a final maturity date of August 1, 2019; and  

   •    $300.0 million secured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Facility”) with a final maturity date of August 1, 2017.  

Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, the lenders have committed to provide senior secured financing in an aggregate amount of up to $2.8 billion. On August 1, 2012 concurrently with the closing of the Gen-Probe acquisition, we borrowed $2.5 billion aggregate principal under the Credit Agreement.  

65  

Table of Contents 

The Guarantors have guaranteed our obligations under the credit facilities, and the credit facilities are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of our assets and the assets of the Guarantors, including all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. subsidiaries owned by us and the Guarantors, 65% of the capital stock of certain of our first-tier foreign subsidiaries and all intercompany debt. The security interests are evidenced by a pledge and security agreement by and among Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as collateral agent, us and the Guarantors and other related agreements, including certain intellectual property security agreements and mortgages.  

We are required to make scheduled principal payments under Term Loan A in increasing amounts ranging from $12.5 million per three month period beginning October 31, 2012 to $50.0 million per three month period commencing October 31, 2015, and under Term Loan B in equal installments of $3.75 million per three month period beginning on October 31, 2012 and for 27 three month periods thereafter. The remaining balance for each term loan is due at maturity. Any amounts outstanding under the Revolving Facility are due at maturity. We are required to make principal repayments first, pro rata among the term loan facilities, and second to the Revolving Facility from specified excess cash flows from operations and from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales, debt issuances, insurance recoveries and equity offerings. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily prepay any of the credit facilities without premium or penalty.  

All amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement will bear interest, at our option, initially, with respect to all loans made under Term Loan A and the Revolving Facility: (i) at the Base Rate plus 2.00% per annum, or (ii) at the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (i.e., the Libor rate) plus 3.00%, and with respect to loans made under Term Loan B: (i) at the Base Rate, with a floor of 2.00%, plus 2.50%, or (ii) at the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, with a floor of 1.00% plus 3.50%. The applicable margin to the Base Rate or Eurodollar Rate on Term Loan A and the Revolving Facility are subject to specified changes depending on the total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee at an annual rate of 0.50% on the undrawn committed amount available under the Revolving Facility (which rate is subject to reduction depending on the total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement).  

The Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting the ability of the Company and the guarantors, subject to negotiated exceptions, to: incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on their assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of their businesses.  

The credit facilities contain total net leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio financial covenants measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2013. The total net leverage ratio is 7.00:1.00 beginning on our fiscal quarter ending December 29, 2012, and then decreases over time to 4.00:1.00 for the quarter ending September 30, 2017 and each fiscal quarter thereafter. The interest coverage ratio is 3.25:1.00 beginning on our fiscal quarter ending December 29, 2012, and then increases over time to 3.75:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2017 and each quarter thereafter. The total net leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of our consolidated net debt as of the quarter end to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the four-fiscal quarter period ending on the measurement date. The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the prior four-fiscal quarter period ending on the measurement date to adjusted consolidated cash interest expense for the same measurement period. These terms, and the calculation thereof, are defined in further detail in the Credit Agreement.  

On August 1, 2012, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes at an offering price of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes were not registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and were offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Senior Notes are our general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Guarantors.  

On August 1, 2012, we, together with the Guarantors, entered into an indenture with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, relating to the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes mature on August 1, 2020 and bear interest at the rate of 6.25% per year, payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2013.  

The indenture contains covenants which limit, among other things, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock, make certain investments, incur liens, enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates, and sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications.  

We may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before August 1, 2015, at a redemption price equal to 106.250% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the Senior Notes on or after: August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016 at 103.125% of par; August 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017 at 102.083% of par; August 1, 2017 through July 31, 2018 at 101.042% of par; and August 1, 2018 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if we undergo a change of control, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.  

66  

Table of Contents 

On August 1, 2012, in connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes, we, together with the Guarantors, entered into an exchange and registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the Senior Notes. Pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement, we, together with the Guarantors, agreed to (i) file a registration statement covering an offer to exchange the Senior Notes for a new issue of identical exchange notes registered under the Securities Act on or before 180 days from August 1, 2012, (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective, and (iii) use commercially reasonable efforts to complete the exchange prior to 270 days after August 1, 2012. Under certain circumstances, we, together with the Guarantors, may be required to provide a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Senior Notes.  

Convertible Notes.  

At September 29, 2012, our convertible notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $1.725 billion, are recorded at $1.56 billion, which is net of the unamortized debt discount attributed to the embedded conversion feature of the convertible notes. These notes consist of:  

   •    $775 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 issued in December 2007 (the “2007 Notes”);  

   •    $450 million of our 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 issued in November 2010 (the “2010 Notes”); and  

   •    $500 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2042 issued in March 2012 (the “2012 Notes”).  

The 2012 Notes were issued on March 5, 2012 pursuant to agreements entered into on February 29, 2012 in exchange for an equal principal amount of the 2007 Notes.   

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2007 Notes on December 13, 2013, and on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032, or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2007 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2010 Notes on each of December 15, 2016, 2020, 2025, on December 13, 2030 and on December 14, 2035 or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2010 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2012 Notes on each of March 1, 2018, 2022, 2027 and 2032, and on March 2, 2037 or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2012 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  

We may redeem any of the 2007 Notes, 2010 Notes and 2012 Notes beginning December 13, 2013, December 19, 2016, and March 6, 2018, respectively. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2007 Notes, 2010 Notes, and 2012 Notes (i.e., in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock) at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.  

We have recorded deferred tax liabilities related to the convertible notes original issuance discount, representing the spread between the cash coupon rate and the higher interest rate deductible for tax purposes. When our convertible notes are extinguished, we are required to recapture the original issuance discount previously deducted for tax purposes. The 2007 Notes first put date is December 13, 2013 and the estimated tax due if the 2007 Notes are put to us on this date is approximately $144 million.  

For additional information on the terms of our indebtedness, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Contingent Earn-Out Payments.  

In connection with certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earn-out payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired businesses over a specified period. In certain circumstances, such as a change of control, a portion of these obligations may be accelerated. In addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earn-out obligations may include covenants to operate the acquired businesses in a manner that may not otherwise be most advantageous to us. These provisions may also result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the acquired business. Such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. Our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. Depending upon the particular facts and circumstances giving rise to the payment and our previous estimates, all or a portion of these payments may be required to be expensed by us when accrued. For example, our contingent earn-out obligations payable in connection with the TCT acquisition will be fully expensed as accrued because our obligation to make these payments is conditioned on the continued employment of certain key employees of TCT.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Our contingent consideration arrangements are recorded as either additional purchase price or compensation expense if continuing employment is required to receive such payments. Pursuant to ASC 805, contingent consideration that is deemed to be part of the purchase price is recorded as a liability based on the estimated fair value of the consideration we expect to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business as of the acquisition date. This liability is re-measured each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded through a separate line item within our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from accretion of the liability for the passage of time, changes in discount rates, and changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates. Contingent consideration arrangements from acquisitions completed prior to the adoption of ASC 805 (effective in fiscal 2010 for us) that are deemed to be part of the purchase price of the acquisition are not subject to the fair value measurement requirements of ASC 805 and are recorded as additional purchase price to goodwill.  

In connection with the acquisition of Adiana, Inc., we have an obligation to the former Adiana shareholders to make contingent payments tied to the achievement of milestones. The milestone payments include potential contingent payments of up to $155.0 million based on worldwide sales of the Adiana Permanent Contraception System in the first year following FDA approval and on annual incremental sales growth thereafter through December 31, 2012. FDA approval of the Adiana system occurred on July 6, 2009, and we began accruing contingent consideration in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 based on the defined percentage of worldwide sales of the product. Since this contingent consideration obligation arose from an acquisition prior to the adoption of ASC 805, the amounts accrued are recorded as additional purchase price to goodwill. The purchase agreement includes an indemnification provision that provides for the reimbursement of qualifying legal expenses and liabilities associated with legal claims against the Adiana products and intellectual property, and we have the right to offset contingent consideration payments to the Adiana shareholders with these qualifying legal costs. We made payments of $8.8 million and $19.7 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, to the former Adiana shareholders, net of amounts withheld for the legal indemnification provision. We had been in litigation with Conceptus regarding certain intellectual property matters related to the Adiana system, and to the extent available, we have been recording legal fees related to the Conceptus litigation matter as a reduction to the accrued contingent consideration payments. No contingent consideration was earned and recorded in fiscal 2012, and as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012 the Company decided to discontinue the manufacture, marketing and sales of the Adiana system. On October 17, 2011, the jury returned a verdict in the Conceptus litigation matter (see below) in favor of Conceptus awarding damages in the amount of $18.8 million. On April 29, 2012, the Company entered into a license and settlement agreement with Conceptus in which Conceptus agreed to forgo the $18.8 million jury award in consideration of the Company agreeing to a permanent injunction against the manufacture, sale and distribution of the Adiana product. At September 29, 2012, the Company has accrued $16.8 million for the payment of contingent consideration to the former Adiana shareholders, which is net of amounts withheld for qualifying legal costs. As a result of our decision to discontinue sales of the Adiana product in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, on account of our determination that the product was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future, we do not expect to incur any further contingent payment obligations to the former Adiana shareholders.  

We also have contingent consideration obligations related to our Sentinelle Medical, Interlace, TCT and Healthcome acquisitions. Pursuant to ASC 805, contingent consideration pertaining to Sentinelle Medical and Interlace is required to be recorded as a liability at fair value and the adjustments to fair value are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Contingent consideration pertaining to TCT and Healthcome is contingent upon future employment and is being recorded as compensation expense as it is earned over the respective service periods. For additional information pertaining to the acquisitions, contingent consideration terms and the assumptions used to fair value contingent consideration, refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

A summary of amounts recorded to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

68  

Table of Contents 

In connection with our acquisition of Sentinelle Medical, we have an obligation to the former stockholders to make contingent payments over a two-year period of up to a maximum of $250.0 million based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during the two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. We made payments of $4.1 million and $4.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and the third quarter of fiscal 2011, respectively. At September 29, 2012, this liability was recorded at $3.4 million.  

In connection with our acquisition of Interlace, we have an obligation to the former stockholders to make contingent payments over a two-year period up to a maximum payout of $225.0 million based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during the two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the first measurement period lapsed resulting in a total contingent amount recorded for this period of $51.8 million, which was disbursed to the former shareholders of Interlace, net of amounts withheld for certain legal indemnification purposes. At September 29, 2012, this liability was recorded at $83.0 million.  

Under the sale and purchase agreement for TCT, $35.0 million of the purchase price has been deferred for one year from the date of the acquisition. This amount plus a portion of the working capital adjustment of $8.5 million were paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. An additional $4.7 million working capital adjustment payment is due upon the completion of fiscal 2013. In addition, we have an obligation to certain of the former shareholders, based on future employment, to make contingent payments over a two year period not to exceed $200.0 million less the deferred payment of $35.0 million. The first earn-out payment of $54.0 million was made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. At September 29, 2012, we have accrued $39.1 million for the second contingent earn-out payment.  

In connection with our acquisition of Healthcome, we have an obligation to the former shareholders to make contingent payments of $5.0 million over the next two fiscal years. At September 29, 2012, we have accrued $5.0 million for these contingent payments.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 29, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Included within long-term debt obligations, we have three issuances (2007 Notes, 2010 Notes and 2012 Notes) of Convertible Notes which can first be put to us on December 13, 2013 ($775 million principal), December 15, 2006 ($450 million principal) and March 1, 2018 ($500 million principal), and we have assumed for purpose of the above table that the principal amounts for each issuance will be paid off when they first can be put to us, which is in fiscal 2014, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively. The amounts in the table do not include deferred tax liabilities for the recapture of the original issuance discount. See Convertible Notes above.  

 (2) The financing leases represent two leases for an office building and a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under US GAAP. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

 (3) Amounts represent those recorded in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. See Contingent Earn-Out Payments for a more complete description of our contingent earn-out obligations.  

69  

Table of Contents 

 (4) Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum purchase commitments for inventory and instruments, and to a lesser extent, other operating expense commitments.  

 (5) In addition to the minimum payments due under our collaborative agreements included above, we may be required to pay up to $4.8 million in milestone payments, plus royalties on net sales of any products using specified technology.  

 (6) Amounts represent minimum royalties due on net sales of products incorporating licensed technology and subject to a minimum annual royalty payment.  

 (7) Pension obligations do not include our obligation under our deferred compensation plans of $32.1 million, which is recorded as a current liability. Deferred compensation plan benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.  

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $38.9 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, certain of our cost method equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above.  

Future Liquidity Considerations  

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, and strategic alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that cash flow from operations and the cash available under our Revolving Facility will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations, debt payments, including interest, and contingent consideration obligations over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, contingent consideration obligations, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes and related deferred tax liabilities. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our Credit Agreement, Senior Notes and convertible notes. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.  

Legal Contingencies  

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Inventory  

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product expiration or end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, excess or obsolete, we would be required to record impairment charges within cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.  

Accounts Receivable Reserves  

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including a dialogue with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, for example as a result of the ongoing financial and economic uncertainty or otherwise, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.  

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.  

Business Combinations  

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805 in fiscal 2010, contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are generally probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with an appropriate risk adjusted rate. Quarterly until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.  

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. The valuation of purchased research and development represents the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition related to in-process projects. Our purchased research and development represents the value of in-process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date of acquisition. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805, we capitalize these assets and record them in our consolidated balance sheet. Under ASC 805, in-process research and development assets are evaluated for impairment similar to goodwill and once the project is complete, if at all, the asset is amortized over its remaining useful life. Prior to the adoption of ASC 805, we expensed the value attributable to these in-process projects at the time of acquisition. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisitions as a whole and impairments may result.  

71  

Table of Contents 

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected product introductions by competitors. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third-party would pay for the projects.  

We have also used the income approach, as described above, to determine the estimated fair value of certain other identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, customer relationships and contracts, and trade names. Developed technology represents patented and unpatented technology and know-how. Customer relationships represent established relationships with customers, which provide a ready channel for the sale of additional products and services. Trade names represent acquired company and product names. For business licenses, we use a combination of the lost profits method and replacement cost method to value such assets. Business licenses allow us to conduct business in a certain country, namely China.  

With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost approach as the primary method in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties.  

Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible Assets  

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing fair value, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally calculate fair value as the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life is changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 in connection with the company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our MammoSite reporting unit, which is included in the Breast Health reportable segment. The impairment indicators were due to a reduction in our revenue projections and long-term growth rates as a result of the continuing deterioration of the brachytherapy market and competition from existing technologies. Our cash flow estimates were based upon historical cash flows, as well as future projected cash flows derived from the company-wide annual planning process. The analysis indicated that MammoSite’s long-lived assets were recoverable based on the undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the predominant long-lived asset. We believe that our procedures for estimating future cash flows were reasonable and consistent with market conditions at the measurement date.  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, in connection with our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our MammoSite reporting unit, due to changing market conditions for the brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. These factors resulted in us lowering the financial projections for MammoSite. As a result, we performed the first step in the long-lived assets impairment test pursuant to ASC 360 and compared MammoSite’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its net assets. These undiscounted cash flows were insufficient to recover MammoSite’s carrying value. Therefore, we determined the fair value of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, which are primarily intangible assets, using a discounted cash flow technique. The expected future cash flows are Level 3 inputs under ASC 820 and are those expected to be generated by the market participants, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. Based on the fair value of the long-lived assets, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $143.5 million to write these intangible assets down to their fair value. The charge was comprised of  

72  

Table of Contents 

 $123.4 million related to developed technology, which was recorded in cost of product sales, $11.8 million related to customer relationships and $8.3 million related to trade names, which were recorded in impairment of intangible assets. In addition, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $76.7 million (see below for further discussion).  

Goodwill  

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that would indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate or operational performance of the business, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.  

In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value. The second step requires us to perform a hypothetical purchase allocation as of the measurement date and estimate the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets is determined as described above and is subject to significant judgment.  

We conducted our fiscal 2012 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flow, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 24, 2012, and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we have used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of our reporting units, except MammoSite, had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for these reporting units. MammoSite’s fair value has declined from fiscal 2011 primarily due to a reduction in our revenue projections and long-term growth rates. The changes in MammoSite’s financial projections were a result of the continuing deterioration of the brachytherapy market, and competition from existing technologies. We performed the Step 2 analysis for MammoSite, consistent with the procedures described above, and recorded a $5.8 million goodwill impairment charge, resulting in no remaining goodwill for this reporting unit.  

For our other reporting units, if their respective fair values had been lower by 10%, each reporting unit would have still passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. Since, the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of this reporting unit.  

We conducted our fiscal 2011 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized DCF and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 26, 2011, and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of each reporting unit been lower by 10%, each reporting unit would have still passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test.  

We conducted our fiscal 2010 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized DCF and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 27, 2010, and believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows and market multiples as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the Company’s reporting units, except MammoSite, had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for these reporting units. MammoSite’s fair value has declined from fiscal 2009 primarily due to a reduction in its long-term growth rates. The changes in MammoSite’s financial projections were a result of changing market conditions for the brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. The DCF calculation of fair value was positively impacted by a reduction in the discount rate to 11.0% from 12.5% used in the fiscal 2009 annual impairment test.  

73  

Table of Contents 

We performed the Step 2 analysis for MammoSite, consistent with the procedures described above, and recorded a $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge. For illustrative purposes had the fair value of MammoSite been 10% lower, the charge would have been higher by $2.5 million. If the fair value of the Company’s other reporting units had been lower by 10%, one reporting unit would have failed Step 1 requiring a Step 2 analysis. This reporting unit is in the Breast Health reportable segment and had a fair value at the annual impairment measurement date that exceeded its carrying value by 4% with goodwill of $256.5 million. The fair value of the reporting unit was determined by use of the DCF. At September 25, 2010, for our other reporting units with goodwill aggregating $1.85 billion as of September 25, 2010, we believed that these reporting units were not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test.  

The estimate of fair value requires significant judgment. Any loss resulting from an impairment test would be reflected in operating income (loss) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The annual impairment testing process is subjective and requires judgment at many points throughout the analysis. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets not previously recorded.  

Revenue Recognition  

We generate revenue from the sale of products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems.  

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, no right of return exists and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements for capital equipment sales, primarily in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health reporting segments, are multiple-element arrangements, including services, such as installation and training, and multiple products. In accordance with ASC 605-25, based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we believe that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as our delivered products have value to our customers on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, revenue for services not yet performed at the time of product shipment are deferred and recognized as such services are performed. The relative selling price of any undelivered products is also deferred at the time of shipment and recognized as revenue when these products are delivered. There is no customer right of return in our sales agreements.  

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training, and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recognized as the services are performed.  

For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, we record revenue as separate units of accounting if the delivered items have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, and if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered items, the delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially within our control. Some of our products have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. We determined that except for our CAD products, the software element in our other products is incidental in accordance with the software revenue recognition rules and are not within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition. We determined that given the significance of the software component’s functionality to our CAD systems, which are sold by our Breast Health segment, these products are within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. We evaluated the appropriate revenue recognition treatment of our other hardware products, including our Dimensions digital mammography systems, which have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality (i.e., it is a tangible product), and determined they are not within the scope of ASC 985-605.  

We are required to allocate revenue to multiple element arrangements based on the relative fair value of each element’s selling price. We typically determine the selling price of our products based on our best estimate of selling price, referred to as ESP, and services based on vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, referred to as VSOE. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold on a stand-alone basis. In determining VSOE, our policy requires a substantial majority of selling prices for a product or service to be within a reasonably narrow range. We also consider the class of customer, method of distribution, and the geographies into which our products and services are sold when determining VSOE. We typically have had VSOE for our products and services. If VSOE cannot be established, which may occur in instances when a product or service has not been sold separately, stand-alone sales are too infrequent, or product pricing is not within a narrow range, we attempt to establish the selling price based on third-party evidence of selling price, referred to as TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. When we cannot determine VSOE or TPE, we use ESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would typically transact a stand-alone sale of the product or service. ESP is determined by considering a number of factors including our pricing policies, internal costs and gross margin objectives, method of distribution, information gathered from experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends, competitive landscape and geographies.  

74  

Table of Contents 

For those arrangements accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on their relative VSOE of fair value. If VSOE does not exist for a delivered element, the residual method is applied in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their VSOE with the remaining consideration recognized as revenue for the delivered elements. For multiple-element software arrangements where VSOE of fair value of Post-Contract Customer Support, referred to as PCS, has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  

As part of our Diagnostics reporting segment and as a result of the Gen-Probe acquisition, we manufacture blood screening products according to demand schedules provided by our collaboration partner, Novartis. Our agreement provides that we share a portion of Novartis’s revenue from screening blood donations. Upon shipment to Novartis, we recognize blood screening product sales at an agreed upon fixed transfer price, which is not refundable, and record the related cost of products sold. Based on the terms of our collaboration agreement with Novartis, our ultimate share of the net revenue from sales to the end user in excess of the transfer price revenues recognized is not known until it is reported to us by Novartis. On a monthly basis, Novartis reports net revenue generated during the prior month and remits an additional corresponding net payment to us which we record as revenue at that time. This payment combined with the transfer price revenues previously recognized represents our ultimate share of net revenue under the agreement.  

Within our Diagnostics business, and to a lesser extent, our Surgical business, we provide our instrumentation (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, PANTHER and TIGRIS) and certain other hardware to customers without requiring them to purchase the equipment or enter into a lease. Instead, we recover the cost of providing the instrumentation and equipment in the amount it charges for its diagnostic tests and assays and other disposables. Customers enter into a customer usage agreement, and we install the equipment at customer sites and customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable products at a stated price over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as tests, assays and other disposable products are shipped. The depreciation costs associated with an instrument are charged to cost of product sales on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the instrument. The costs to maintain these instruments in the field are charged to cost of product sales as incurred.  

We sell our instruments to Novartis for use in blood screening and record these instrument sales upon delivery since Novartis is responsible for the placement, maintenance and repair of the units with its customers. We also sell instruments to our clinical diagnostics customers and record sales of these instruments upon delivery and customer acceptance. For certain customers with non-standard payment terms, instrument sales are recorded based upon expected cash collection. Prior to delivery, each instrument is tested to meet the Company’s specifications and the specifications of the FDA, and is shipped fully assembled. Customer acceptance of the Company’s clinical diagnostic instrument systems requires installation and training by our technical service personnel. Installation is a standard process consisting principally of uncrating, calibrating and testing the instrumentation.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

We recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with the fair value of stock options and restricted stock units issued to our employees. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:  

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.  

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.  

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.  

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718, Stock Compensation, requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, we have determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and have applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 7% as of September 29, 2012 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated periodically and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.  

75  

Table of Contents 

We recognized $40.6 million, $35.5 million and $34.2 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2012 was due to the addition of assumed stock options in the Gen-Probe acquisition, which included the acceleration of vesting for certain terminated employees, resulting in $3.5 million of additional stock-based compensation expense. As of September 29, 2012, there was $44.9 million and $36.6 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock units, respectively, that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 3.2 years and 2.4 years, respectively.  

Income Taxes  

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between financial reporting and taxes bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.  

We have recognized net deferred tax liabilities of $1.76 billion at September 29, 2012 and $917.8 million at September 24, 2011. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and the debt discount and original issuance discount on our Convertible Notes. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  

We had gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, of $53.1 million as of September 29, 2012 and $31.0 million as of September 24, 2011. At September 29, 2012, $53.1 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would result in a reduction of the Company’s effective tax rate. In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $1.0 to $2.0 million due to expiration of statute of limitations and favorable settlements with taxing authorities, all of which would reduce our effective tax rate.  

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In the event our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  

In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011-11 amended ASC 210, Balance Sheet, to converge the presentation of offsetting assets and liabilities between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-11 requires that entities disclose both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. ASU 2011-11 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after January 1, 2013, which is our fiscal year 2014. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2011-11 on our consolidated financial statements.  

Presentation of Comprehensive Income  

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires an entity to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 does not change any of the components of comprehensive income, but it eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of stockholders equity. ASU 2011-05 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2013 and should be applied retrospectively. We have elected to early-adopt ASU 2011-05 in fiscal 2012 and have provided a separate statement of comprehensive income (loss) in our consolidated financial statements.  

Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements  

In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04—Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, to provide a consistent definition of fair value and  

76  

Table of Contents 

 ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements particularly for level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for us in our second quarter of fiscal 2012 and should be applied prospectively. The adoption of ASU 2011-04 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Business Combinations  

In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (Topic 805)—Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. ASU 2010-29 requires a public entity to disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the prior year. It also requires a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported revenue and earnings. The new disclosure was effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2012 and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Intangibles—Goodwill and Other  

In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-28, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). ASU 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. ASU 2010-28 is effective for us in fiscal 2012. The adoption of ASU 2010-28 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011-08 allows entities to first assess qualitatively whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative two-step impairment test is required; otherwise, no further testing is required. ASU 2011-08 is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2013, although early adoption is permitted. We do not believe that ASU 2011-08 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk