PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DUKE ENERGY

General

Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) and Latin America primarily through its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Duke Energy's subsidiaries include its subsidiary registrants (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants); Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas); Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy); Duke Energy Progress, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Progress, Inc.) (Duke Energy Progress); Duke Energy Florida, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Florida, Inc.) (Duke Energy Florida); Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio); and Duke Energy Indiana, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.) (Duke Energy Indiana). When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its Subsidiary Registrants, which along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

Duke Energy has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (Piedmont), a North Carolina corporation. Piedmont is an energy services company primarily engaged in the distribution of natural gas to residential, commercial, industrial and power generation customers in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Under terms of the Merger Agreement, Duke Energy will acquire Piedmont for $4.9 billion in cash and Piedmont will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Piedmont's common stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Duke Energy and Piedmont target to close the transaction by the end of 2016 subject to meeting various conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. For additional information see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions."

Duke Energy completed the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business and Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (collectively, the Disposal Group) to Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy) on April 2, 2015, for approximately $2.8 billion in cash. The Disposal Group primarily included Duke Energy Ohio's coal-fired and gas-fired generation assets located in the Midwest region of the United States and dispatched into the PJM wholesale market. The Disposal Group also included a retail sales subsidiary of Duke Energy, that served retail electric and gas customers in Ohio with energy and other energy services at competitive rates. For additional information see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions."

The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.

The public may read and copy any materials the Duke Energy Registrants file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s website at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Business Segments

Duke Energy conducts its operations in three business segments; Regulated Utilities, International Energy and Commercial Portfolio (formerly Commercial Power). The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations are presented as Other. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate the performance of the business. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

REGULATED UTILITIES

Regulated Utilities conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana, and Duke Energy Ohio. These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC).

Regulated Utilities serves 7.4 million retail electric customers in six states in the Southeast and Midwest regions of the U.S. Its service area covers approximately 95,000 square miles with an estimated population of 24 million people. Regulated Utilities serves 525,000 retail natural gas customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load-serving entities.

9

PART I

The following table represents the distribution of billed sales by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Primary general service sectors include health care, education, financial services, information technology and military buildings. Primary industrial sectors include textiles, chemicals, rubber and plastics, paper, food and beverage, and auto manufacturing.

(b)Primary general service sectors include tourism, health care and government facilities and schools. Primary industrial sectors include phosphate rock mining and processing and citrus and other food processing.

(c)Primary general service sectors include health care, education, real estate and rental leasing, financial and insurance services, water/wastewater services, and wholesale trade services. Primary industrial sectors include primary metals, chemicals, food and beverage, and transportation.

(d)Primary general service sectors include retail, financial, health care and education services. Primary industrial sectors include metals, transportation, building materials, food and beverage, and chemicals.

The number of residential, general service and industrial customers within the Regulated Utilities service territory is expected to increase over time. However, growth in the near term has been hampered by current economic conditions and continued adoption of energy efficiencies. Average usage per residential customer is expected to remain flat or decline for the foreseeable future. While total industrial and general service sales increased in 2015 when compared to 2014, the growth rate was modest when compared to historical periods.

Seasonality and the Impact of Weather

Regulated Utilities’ costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows in these periods. By contrast, lower sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months. Residential and general service customers are most impacted by weather. Estimated weather impacts are based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions. Normal weather conditions are defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions.

The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the temperature variances from a normal condition and customers’ historic usage levels and patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity in the summer or wind chill in the winter. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter-term periods.

Degree-day data are used to estimate energy required to maintain comfortable indoor temperatures based on each day’s average temperature. Heating-degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature falls below a base temperature. Cooling-degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below the base temperature counts as one heating-degree day and each degree of temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling-degree day.

Competition

Retail

Regulated Utilities’ businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within their service territories, with the exception of Ohio, which has a competitive electricity supply market for generation service. Regulated Utilities owns and operates facilities necessary to transmit and distribute electricity and, except in Ohio, to generate electricity. Services are priced by state commission approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices. Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources including on-site generation from industrial customers and distributed generation, such as rooftop solar, at residential, general service and/or industrial customer sites.

Regulated Utilities is not aware of any proposed legislation in any of its jurisdictions that would give its retail customers the right to choose their electricity provider or otherwise restructure or deregulate the electric industry including broadly subsidizing distributed generation such as rooftop solar.

Although there is no pending legislation at this time, if the retail jurisdictions served by Regulated Utilities become subject to deregulation, the recovery of stranded costs could become a significant consideration. Stranded costs primarily include the generation assets of Regulated Utilities whose value in a competitive marketplace may be less than their current book value, as well as above-market purchased power commitments from qualifying facilities (QFs). The Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) established a new class of generating facilities as QFs, typically small power production facilities that generate power within a utility company’s service territory for which the utility companies are legally obligated to purchase the energy at an avoided cost rate. Thus far, all states that have passed restructuring legislation have provided for the opportunity to recover a substantial portion of stranded costs.

10

PART I

Regulated Utilities’ largest stranded cost exposure is primarily related to Duke Energy Florida’s purchased power commitments with QFs, under which it has future minimum expected capacity payments through 2043 of $3.1 billion. Duke Energy Florida was obligated to enter into these contracts under provisions of PURPA. Duke Energy Florida continues to seek ways to address the impact of escalating payments under these contracts. However, the FPSC allows full recovery of the retail portion of the cost of power purchased from QFs. For additional information related to these purchased power commitments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” 

In Ohio, Regulated Utilities conducts competitive auctions for electricity supply and purchases the gas commodity for natural gas service. The cost of energy purchased through these auctions and the cost of gas purchases are recovered from retail customers. Regulated Utilities earns retail margin in Ohio on the transmission and distribution of electricity and the distribution of gas and not on the cost of the underlying energy.

Wholesale

Regulated Utilities competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales, sales to municipalities and cooperatives, and wholesale transactions. The principal factors in competing for these sales are price, availability of capacity and power, and reliability of service. Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs.

Increased competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of transmission access could affect Regulated Utilities’ load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to sell to the wholesale market and the ability of Regulated Utilities to attract new customers and to retain existing customers.

Energy Capacity and Resources

Regulated Utilities owns approximately 50,000 megawatts (MW) of generation capacity. For additional information on Regulated Utilities’ generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”

Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause Regulated Utilities to purchase power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability, demand growth, and price. Regulated Utilities has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy, and reliability of power supply.

Regulated Utilities’ generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve retail customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements.

Potential Plant Retirements

The Subsidiary Registrants periodically file Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) with state regulatory commissions. The IRPs provide a view of forecasted energy needs over a long term (10 to 20 years) and options being considered to meet those needs. Recent IRPs filed by the Subsidiary Registrants included planning assumptions to potentially retire certain coal-fired generating facilities earlier than their current estimated useful lives. These facilities do not have the requisite emission control equipment, primarily to meet United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations recently approved or proposed. Duke Energy continues to evaluate the potential need to retire these coal-fired generating facilities earlier than the current estimated useful lives, and plans to seek regulatory recovery for amounts that would not be otherwise recovered when any of these assets are retired. For additional information related to potential plant retirements see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the Clean Power Plan (CPP) rule for regulating carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units (EGUs). The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 2016, or no later than September 2018 with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured.

11

PART I

Sources of Electricity

Regulated Utilities relies principally on coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel for its generation of electricity. The following table lists sources of electricity and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Statistics related to all fuels reflect Regulated Utilities' ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities. 

(b)Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods. 

(c)Purchased power includes renewable energy purchases. 

(d)Includes the effect of the Joint Dispatch Agreement (JDA). 

(e)Amounts for 2014 and 2013 have been adjusted to reflect the inclusion of Duke Energy Ohio auction purchases from PJM and Purchased power and net interchange. 

Coal

Regulated Utilities meets its coal demand through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Regulated Utilities uses spot market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range from 2016 to 2017 for Duke Energy Carolinas, 2016 to 2018 for Duke Energy Progress, 2016 to 2017 for Duke Energy Florida, and 2016 to 2025 for Duke Energy Indiana. Regulated Utilities expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. Coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Florida is primarily produced from mines in Colorado and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Indiana is primarily produced in Indiana and Illinois. Regulated Utilities has an adequate supply of coal under contract to fuel its projected 2016 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2017 operations. As a result of lower natural gas prices and less coal-fired dispatch within the generation fleet, coal inventories may periodically exceed production requirements and result in higher inventory levels. In these circumstances, Regulated Utilities has worked with suppliers to defer contracted deliveries, renegotiate existing contract volumes or has received regulatory support to adjust generation dispatch to reduce the inventory levels. 

The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by Regulated Utilities is between 1.5 percent and 2 percent for Duke Energy Carolinas, between 1.5 percent and 2 percent for Duke Energy Progress, between 1 percent and 2.5 percent for Duke Energy Florida, and between 2 percent and 3 percent for Duke Energy Indiana. Regulated Utilities’ environmental controls, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable Regulated Utilities to satisfy current SO2 emission limitations for its existing facilities.

Nuclear

The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, and services to convert, enrich, and fabricate fuel assemblies.

Regulated Utilities has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel its nuclear reactors. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Regulated Utilities staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements in the near term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Regulated Utilities generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multiyear contracts.

Regulated Utilities has entered into fuel contracts that cover 100 percent of its uranium concentrates, conversion services, and enrichment services requirements through at least 2017 and cover fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2019. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Regulated Utilities believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services.

12

PART I

Natural Gas and Oil

Natural gas and oil supply for Regulated Utilities’ generation fleet is purchased under term and spot contracts from various suppliers. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana use derivative instruments to limit a portion of their exposure to price fluctuations for natural gas. Regulated Utilities has certain dual-fuel generating facilities that can operate with both natural gas and oil. The cost of Regulated Utilities’ natural gas and oil is either at a fixed price or determined by market prices as reported in certain industry publications. Regulated Utilities believes it has access to an adequate supply of gas and oil for the reasonably foreseeable future. Regulated Utilities’ natural gas transportation for its gas generation is purchased under long-term firm transportation contracts with interstate and intrastate pipelines. Regulated Utilities may also purchase additional shorter-term transportation for its load requirements during peak periods. The Regulated Utilities natural gas plants are served by several supply zones and multiple pipelines.

Purchased Power

Regulated Utilities purchases a portion of its capacity and system requirements through purchase obligations, leases and purchase contracts. Regulated Utilities believes it can obtain adequate purchased power capacity to meet future system load needs. However, during periods of high demand, the price and availability of purchased power may be significantly affected.

The following table summarizes purchased power the previous three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Represents approximately 5 percent of total system requirements for all years presented.

(b) These agreements include approximately 421 MW of firm capacity under contract by Duke Energy Florida with QFs.

Natural Gas for Retail Distribution

Regulated Utilities is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to retail customers in its Ohio and Kentucky service territories. Regulated Utilities’ natural gas procurement strategy is to buy firm natural gas supplies and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter season and during the non-heating season through a combination of firm supply and transportation capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This strategy allows Regulated Utilities to assure reliable natural gas supply for its non-curtailable customers during peak winter conditions and provides Regulated Utilities the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm customers choose alternate gas. In 2015, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided approximately 71 percent of the natural gas supply.

Inventory

Generation of electricity is capital intensive. Regulated Utilities must maintain an adequate stock of fuel and materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2015, the inventory balance for Regulated Utilities was $3,702 million. For additional information on inventory see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

Ash Basin Management

On September 20, 2014, the North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014 (Coal Ash Act) became law and was amended on June 24, 2015, by the Mountain Energy Act. The Coal Ash Act established a Coal Ash Management Commission (Coal Ash Commission) to oversee handling of coal ash within the state and requires closure of ash impoundments by no later than December 31, 2029 based on risk rankings, amongst other detailed requirements. The Coal Ash Act leaves the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of coal combustion residual (CCR) surface impoundments (ash basins or impoundments) to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. Duke Energy has and will periodically submit to applicable authorities required site-specific coal ash impoundment remediation or closure plans. These plans and all associated permits must be approved before any work can begin.

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) in the Federal Register, establishing rules to regulate the disposal of coal combustion residuals (CCR) from electric utilities as solid waste. The RCRA, and the Coal Ash Act, as amended, finalized the legal framework related to coal ash management practices and ash basin closure. 

Duke Energy has advanced the strategy and implementation for the remediation or closure of coal ash basins. In 2015, Duke Energy began activities at certain sites within North Carolina specified as high risk by the Coal Ash Act with coal ash moving off-site for use in structural fill or to lined landfills.

For additional information on the ash basins, see Notes 5 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively. 

Nuclear Matters

Regulated Utilities owns, wholly or partially, 11 nuclear reactors located at six stations. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and replacement power expense coverage. Joint owners reimburse Regulated Utilities for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance in accordance with joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires plant owners to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which currently is $13.5 billion. For additional information on nuclear insurance see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”

13

PART I

Regulated Utilities has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate each plant safely. The NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC require Regulated Utilities to update their cost estimates for decommissioning their nuclear plants every five years.

The following table summarizes the fair value of nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF) balances and cost study results for Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Amounts for Progress Energy equal the sum of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.

(b)Amounts include the Subsidiary Registrants' ownership interest in jointly owned reactors. Other joint owners are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their interest in the reactors.

(c)Duke Energy Florida received reimbursements from the NDTF for costs related to ongoing decommissioning activity of the Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant during 2015.

The NCUC, PSCSC. FPSC and FERC have allowed Regulated Utilities’ to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail and wholesale rates over the expected remaining service periods of their nuclear stations. Regulated Utilities believes the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balance and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning. For additional information see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”

The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (as amended) (NWPA) provides the framework for development by the federal government of interim storage and permanent disposal facilities for high-level radioactive waste materials. The NWPA promotes increased usage of interim storage of spent nuclear fuel at existing nuclear plants. Regulated Utilities will continue to maximize the use of spent fuel storage capability within its own facilities for as long as feasible.

Under federal law, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and construction of a facility for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. Delays have occurred in the DOE’s proposed permanent repository to be located at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. At this time, DOE's focus is on developing consolidated storage for commercial spent nuclear fuel at one or more central sites rather than at a permanent repository.

Until the DOE begins to accept the spent nuclear fuel, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida will continue to safely manage their spent nuclear fuel. Under current regulatory guidelines, Harris Nuclear Plant has sufficient storage capacity in its spent fuel pools through the expiration of its renewed operating license. Crystal River Unit 3 was retired in 2013, and placed in SAFSTOR prior to final decommissioning. The spent fuel is currently stored in the spent fuel pool and an independent spent fuel storage installation will be installed to accommodate storage of all the spent nuclear fuel until the DOE accepts the spent nuclear fuel. With certain modifications and approvals by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to expand the on-site dry cask storage facilities, spent nuclear fuel dry storage facilities will be sufficient to provide storage space of spent fuel through the expiration of the operating licenses, including any license renewals, for the Brunswick Nuclear Plant, Catawba Nuclear Station, McGuire Nuclear Station, Oconee Nuclear Station and Robinson Nuclear Plant. 

The nuclear power industry faces uncertainties with respect to the cost and long-term availability of disposal sites for spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive waste, compliance with changing regulatory requirements, capital outlays for modifications and new plant construction, the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning plants at the end of their licensed lives, and requirements relating to nuclear insurance. 

Regulated Utilities is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. The following table includes the current year of expiration of nuclear operating licenses for nuclear stations in operation. Nuclear operating licenses are potentially subject to extension. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

PART I

Duke Energy Florida has requested the NRC to terminate the Crystal River Unit 3 operating license as Crystal River Unit 3 permanently ceased operation in February 2013. For additional information on decommissioning activity and transition to SAFSTOR, see Note 4 "Regulatory Matters."

The NRC issues orders with regard to security at nuclear plants in response to new or emerging threats. The most recent orders include additional restrictions on nuclear plant access, increased security measures at nuclear facilities and closer coordination with intelligence, military, law enforcement and emergency response functions at the federal, state and local levels. As the NRC, other governmental entities and the industry continue to consider security issues, it is possible that more extensive security plans could be required.

Regulation

State

The NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC, PUCO, IURC and KPSC (collectively, the state utility commissions) approve rates for retail electric and gas service within their respective states. The state utility commissions, to varying degrees, have authority over the construction and operation of Regulated Utilities’ generating facilities. Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the state utility commissions, as applicable, authorize Regulated Utilities to construct and operate its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state utility commission is required for Regulated Utilities to issue securities. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect revenues equal to its cost of providing service plus earn a reasonable rate of return on its invested capital, including equity.

Each of the state utility commissions allow recovery of certain costs through various cost-recovery clauses to the extent the respective commission determines in periodic hearings that such costs, including any past over or under-recovered costs, are prudent. The clauses are in addition to approved base rates.

Fuel, fuel-related costs and certain purchased power costs are eligible for recovery by Regulated Utilities. Regulated Utilities uses coal, hydroelectric, natural gas, oil and nuclear fuel to generate electricity, thereby maintaining a diverse fuel mix that helps mitigate the impact of cost increases in any one fuel. Due to the associated regulatory treatment and the method allowed for recovery, changes in fuel costs from year to year have no material impact on operating results of Regulated Utilities, unless a commission finds a portion of such costs to have been imprudent. However, delays between the expenditure for fuel costs and recovery from customers can adversely impact the timing of cash flows of Regulated Utilities.

The following table summarizes base rate cases approved and effective in the past three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Rates increase over a two or three year period as approved by the NCUC and PSCSC. Annual increase amounts represent the total increase once effective.

(b)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) a $10 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers, and (iii) an annual reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $30 million for each of the first two years.

(c)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) an approximate $4 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers and for economic development, and (iii) a reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $45 million for the first year.

(d)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) a $20 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers, and (iii) a reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $20 million for the first year.

(e)Although the PUCO approved no increase in base rates, more than half of the revenue request was approved to be recovered in various riders, including recovery of costs related to former manufactured gas plants (MGP). Recovery of $56 million of MGP costs via a rider was approved in November 2013. The rider became effective in March 2014, was suspended in June 2014 and reinstated in January 2015. For additional information on MGP recovery see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

(f)Terms of this settlement include (i) no additional base rate increases until 2019, (ii) partial recovery of Crystal River Unit 3, which began in 2014, and (iii) full recovery of Crystal River Unit 3, not to exceed $1,466 million, plus the cost to build a dry cask storage facility, beginning no later than 2017. See Note 4, "Regulatory Matters," for information regarding Duke Energy Florida's nuclear asset securitizable balance related to Crystal River Unit 3. 

(g)Terms of this settlement include the removal of Crystal River Unit 3 assets from rate base. 

(h)Capital structure includes deferred income tax, customer deposits and investment tax credits.

For more information on rate matters and other regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

15

PART I

Federal

The FERC approves Regulated Utilities’ cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale customers, as well as sales of transmission service. Regulations of FERC and the state utility commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customers and other data by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated and nonregulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of nonregulated affiliates with Regulated Utilities.

Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO). PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) and Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) are the Independent System Operators (ISO) and FERC-approved RTOs for the regions in which Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana operate. PJM and MISO operate energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, control the day-to-day operations of bulk power systems.

Duke Energy Ohio is a member of PJM and Duke Energy Indiana is a member of MISO. Transmission owners in these RTOs have turned over control of their transmission facilities, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of the RTOs. Transmission service is provided on a region wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the RTO members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.

Environmental. Regulated Utilities is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.

See “Other Matters” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY

International Energy principally operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power, natural gas, and natural gas liquids outside the U.S. Its activities principally target power generation in Latin America. Additionally, International Energy owns a 25 percent interest in National Methanol Company (NMC), a large regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) located in Saudi Arabia. International Energy’s economic ownership interest will decrease to 17.5 percent upon successful startup of NMC's polyacetal production facility, which is expected to occur in January 2017. International Energy will retain 25 percent of the board representation and voting rights of NMC. The investment in NMC is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

On February 18, 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest the International Energy business segment, excluding the equity method investment in NMC. The process remains in a preliminary stage and there have been no binding or non-binding offers requested or submitted. Duke Energy can provide no assurance that this process will result in a transaction and there is no specific timeline for execution of a potential transaction. 

In December 2014, Duke Energy declared a taxable dividend of historical foreign earnings in the form of notes payable that resulted in the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion in cash held and expected to be generated by International Energy over a period of up to eight years. For additional information see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.” 

Customers, Competition and Regulation

International Energy’s customers include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power producers, marketers, and industrial and commercial companies. 

International Energy’s sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with other generators and marketers serving its market areas. Competitors are country and region-specific, but include government-owned electric generating companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and other privately owned electric generating and marketing companies. The principal elements of competition are price and availability, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service.

A high percentage of International Energy’s portfolio consists of baseload hydroelectric generation facilities, which compete with other forms of electric generation available to International Energy’s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel oils. Economic activity, conservation, legislation, governmental regulations, weather, including rainfall, additional generation capacities and other factors affect the supply and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy.

International Energy’s operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and regulations. See “Environmental Matters” in this section.

COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO

Commercial Portfolio primarily acquires, builds, develops, and operates wind and solar renewable generation and energy transmission projects throughout the continental U.S. The portfolio includes nonregulated renewable energy, electric transmission, natural gas infrastructure and energy storage businesses. The segment was renamed in 2015 as a result of the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business, as discussed in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions." 

16

PART I

Commercial Portfolio's renewable energy includes utility-scale wind and solar generation assets which total more than 2,400 MW across 11 states from more than 22 wind farms and 38 commercial solar farms. Revenues are primarily generated by selling the power produced from renewable generation through long-term contracts to utilities, electric cooperatives, municipalities, and commercial and industrial customers. In most instances, these customers have obligations under state-mandated renewable energy portfolio standards or similar state or local renewable energy goals. Energy and renewable energy credits generated by wind and solar projects are generally sold at contractual prices. In addition, as wind and solar projects are placed in service, Commercial Portfolio recognizes either investment tax credits (ITC) when the renewable project achieves commercial availability or production tax credits (PTC) as power is generated by the project over 10 years. Renewable ITC are recognized over the useful life of the asset with the benefit of the tax basis adjustment due to the ITC recognized in income in the year of commercial availability.

Duke Energy, through its Commercial Portfolio segment, is a 40 percent equity member of Atlantic Coast Pipeline, LLC, (ACP) that plans to build and own the proposed Atlantic Coast Pipeline (the pipeline), a 564-mile interstate natural gas pipeline. The pipeline is intended to transport diverse gas supplies into southeastern markets. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress, among others, will be customers of the pipeline. The estimated in-service date of the pipeline is late 2018. For additional information on the ACP equity investment and further details on the proposed pipeline, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters." 

Commercial Portfolio also has a 7.5 percent equity ownership interest in the proposed Sabal Trail natural gas pipeline. The Sabal Trail pipeline is planned to begin service in 2017 and traverse Alabama, Georgia and Florida to meet rapidly growing demand for natural gas in those states. For additional information on the Sabal Trail equity investment and further details on the proposed pipeline, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters." 

Commercial Portfolio has executed investments to expand and grow the business through the addition of distributed solar projects, energy storage systems and energy management solutions specifically tailored to commercial businesses. 

For additional information on Commercial Portfolio’s generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”

Other Matters

Commercial Portfolio is subject to regulation at the federal level, primarily from the FERC. Regulations of the FERC govern access to regulated market information by nonregulated entities, services provided between regulated and nonregulated utilities, pipeline certification. 

For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters – Rate Related Information.”

Market Environment and Competition

The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the wholesale energy business. Commercial Portfolio’s main competitors include other nonregulated generators and wholesale power providers.

Sources of Electricity

Commercial Portfolio relies on wind and solar resources for its generation of electric energy.

OTHER

The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not an operating segment, Other primarily includes unallocated corporate interest expense, certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy’s wholly owned, captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the Duke Energy Foundation, and other minor and immaterial investments in businesses the Company retained from previous divestitures that are no longer part of its current operating segment or is in various stages of exiting or winding down. 

Bison’s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification of various business risks and losses, such as property, workers’ compensation and general liability of Duke Energy subsidiaries and affiliates.

Regulation

Certain entities within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of state and local agencies.

Geographic Regions

For a discussion of Duke Energy’s foreign operations see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

Employees

On December 31, 2015, Duke Energy had a total of 29,188 employees on its payroll. The total includes 5,371 employees who are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements that generally cover wages, benefits, working practices, and other terms and conditions of employment. 

17

PART I

Executive Officers of the Registrants

The following table sets forth the individuals who currently serve as executive officers. Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected or appointed. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) The ages of the officers provided are as of December 31, 2015.

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.

Environmental Matters

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Duke Energy is also subject to international laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:

•The Clean Air Act (CAA), as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.

•The Clean Water Act (CWA), which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment.

•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.

•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the RCRA, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.

•The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.

•The CPP, which regulates CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units by requiring states to develop and submit final compliance plans, or initial plans with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay against the CPP halting enforcement until legal challenges are resolved.

18

PART I

•Coal Ash Act, as amended, which establishes regulations regarding the use and closure of existing ash basins, the disposal of ash at active coal plants and the handling of surface water impacts from ash basins in North Carolina. 

•CCR, which classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste under RCRA and establishes requirements regarding landfill design and management and monitoring of CCR. 

See “Other Matters” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations. Additionally, other recently passed and potential future environmental laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, if and when such laws and regulations become effective, the Duke Energy Registrants will seek appropriate regulatory recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.

For more information on environmental matters involving the Duke Energy Registrants, including possible liability and capital costs, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental.” Except to the extent discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” compliance with current international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Duke Energy Carolinas is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area covers approximately 24,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 2.5 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Carolinas' operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

PROGRESS ENERGY

Progress Energy is a public utility holding company primarily engaged in the regulated electric utility business and is subject to regulation by the FERC. Progress Energy conducts operations through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. When discussing Progress Energy’s financial information, it necessarily includes the results of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.

Substantially all of Progress Energy’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Progress Energy operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Duke Energy Progress is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Progress’ service area covers approximately 32,000 square miles, and supplies electric service to approximately 1.5 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Progress’ generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Progress is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Progress’ operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Progress operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Duke Energy Florida is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electricity in portions of Florida. Duke Energy Florida’s service area covers approximately 13,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 1.7 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Florida’s generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Florida is subject to the regulatory provisions of the FPSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Florida’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Florida operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

Duke Energy Ohio is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in portions of Ohio and Kentucky, in the generation and sale of electricity in portions of Kentucky, and the transportation and sale of natural gas in portions of Ohio and Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio also conducts competitive auctions for retail electricity supply in Ohio whereby recovery of the energy price is from retail customers. Operations in Kentucky are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiary, Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky). References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUCO, KPSC and FERC.

19

PART I

Duke Energy Ohio’s service area covers approximately 3,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 840,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers and provides transmission and distribution services for natural gas to approximately 525,000 customers. For information about Duke Energy Ohio's generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” 

On April 2, 2015, Duke Energy completed the sale of its nonregulated Midwest generation business, which sold power into wholesale energy markets, to a subsidiary of Dynegy. For further information about the sale of the Midwest Generation business, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions." 

Substantially all of Duke Energy Ohio's operations that remain after the sale qualify for regulatory accounting.

Business Segments

Duke Energy Ohio had two reportable operating segments, Regulated Utilities and Commercial Portfolio, prior to the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business. As a result of the sale Commercial Portfolio no longer qualifies as a Duke Energy Ohio reportable operating segment. Therefore, for periods subsequent to the sale, beginning in the second quarter of 2015, all of the remaining assets and related results of operations previously presented in Commercial Portfolio are presented in Regulated Utilities and Other. For additional information on this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

Duke Energy Indiana is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana’s service area covers 23,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 810,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers. See Item 2, “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Indiana’s generating facilities, transmission and distribution. Duke Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS