PART II

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted segment income, discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.

The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) and its subsidiaries Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Duke Energy Progress, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Progress, Inc.) (Duke Energy Progress), Duke Energy Florida, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Florida, Inc.) (Duke Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio) and Duke Energy Indiana, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.) (Duke Energy Indiana) (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants). However, none of the registrants makes any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants of Duke Energy other than itself.

DUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, and Duke Energy Indiana, as well as in Latin America.

When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of the Subsidiary Registrants, which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Executive Overview

Acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas

On October 24, 2015, Duke Energy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., (Piedmont) a North Carolina corporation. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Duke Energy will acquire Piedmont for approximately $4.9 billion in cash. Upon closing, Piedmont will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy.

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each share of Piedmont common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing will be converted automatically into the right to receive $60 in cash per share. In addition, Duke Energy will assume Piedmont's existing debt, which was approximately $1.9 billion at October 31, 2015, the end of Piedmont's most recent fiscal year. Duke Energy expects to finance the transaction with a combination of debt, between $500 million and $750 million of newly issued equity and other cash sources. 

In connection with the Merger Agreement with Piedmont, Duke Energy entered into a $4.9 billion senior unsecured bridge financing facility (Bridge Facility) with Barclays Capital, Inc. (Barclays). The Bridge Facility, if drawn upon, may be used to (i) fund the cash consideration for the transaction and (ii) pay certain fees and expenses in connection with the transaction. In November 2015, Barclays syndicated its commitment under the Bridge Facility to a broader group of lenders. Duke Energy intends to finance the transaction with proceeds raised through the issuance of debt, equity and other sources as noted above and, therefore, does not expect to draw upon the Bridge Facility.

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has granted early termination of the 30-day waiting period under the federal Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. On January 22, 2016, shareholders of Piedmont Natural Gas approved the company's acquisition by Duke Energy. On January 15, 2016, Duke Energy filed for approval of the transaction and associated financing requests with the NCUC. On January 29, 2016, the NCUC approved the financing requests. On January 15, 2016, Duke Energy and Piedmont filed a joint request with the Tennessee Regulatory Authority for approval of a change in control of Piedmont that will result from Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont. In that request, Duke Energy and Piedmont requested that the Authority approve the change in control on or before April 30, 2016. Subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals and meeting closing conditions, Duke Energy and Piedmont target a closing by the end of 2016. 

On December 11, 2015, Duke Energy Kentucky filed a declaratory request with the KPSC seeking a finding that the transaction does not constitute a change in control of Duke Energy Kentucky requiring KPSC approval. Duke Energy also presented the transaction for information before the PSCSC on January 13, 2016.

The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Duke Energy and Piedmont, and provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, Duke Energy would be required to pay a termination fee of $250 million to Piedmont and Piedmont would be required to pay Duke Energy a termination fee of $125 million. 

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Regulatory Matters," for additional information regarding Duke Energy and Piedmont's joint investment in Atlantic Coast Pipeline, LLC. 

36

PART II

Midwest Generation Exit

Duke Energy, through indirect subsidiaries, completed the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business and Duke Energy Retail Sales LLC (collectively, the Disposal Group) to a subsidiary of Dynegy on April 2, 2015, for approximately $2.8 billion in cash. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions,” for additional information on this transaction.

Accelerated Stock Repurchase Program

On April 6, 2015, Duke Energy entered into agreements with each of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (the Dealers) to repurchase a total of $1.5 billion of Duke Energy common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase program (the ASR). Duke Energy made payments of $750 million to each of the Dealers and was delivered 16.6 million shares, with a total fair value of $1.275 billion, which represented approximately 85 percent of the total number of shares of Duke Energy common stock expected to be repurchased under the ASR. The $225 million unsettled portion met the criteria to be accounted for as a forward contract indexed to Duke Energy's stock and qualified as an equity instrument. The company recorded the $1.5 billion payment as a reduction to common stock as of April 6, 2015. In June 2015, the Dealers delivered 3.2 million additional shares to Duke Energy to complete the ASR. Approximately 19.8 million shares, in total, were delivered to Duke Energy and retired under the ASR at an average price of $75.75 per share. The final number of shares repurchased was based upon the average of the daily volume weighted average stock prices of Duke Energy’s common stock during the term of the program, less a discount.

For additional information on the details of this transaction, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Common Stock.”

Financial Results

(a)See Results of Operations below for Duke Energy’s definition of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share as well as a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income attributable to Duke Energy and net income attributable to Duke Energy per diluted share.

Adjusted earnings decreased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to lower earnings at International Energy as a result of unfavorable hydrology and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by improved earnings at Regulated Utilities from improved retail pricing and wholesale margins net of higher operations and maintenance expense. 

Adjusted earnings increased from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to the impact of revised rates and favorable weather, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense.

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of financial results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

2015 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments

In 2015, Duke Energy advanced a number of important strategic initiatives to transform the energy future with a focus on customers, employees, operations and growth. Duke Energy announced the acquisition of Piedmont, completed the purchase of North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency's (NCEMPA) generation assets, completed the sale of the nonregulated Midwest Generation business and executed on the coal ash strategy to continue moving towards ash basin closures. Duke Energy also accomplished industry-leading safety and environmental performance and increased the growth rate of the dividend, a significant component of the investor value proposition.

Acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas. In 2015, Duke Energy entered into a Merger Agreement with Piedmont, under which Duke Energy will acquire Piedmont for $4.9 billion in cash. This acquisition reflects the growing importance of natural gas to the future of the energy infrastructure within the company's service territory, and throughout the U.S., and establishes a platform for future growth in natural gas infrastructure.

37

PART II

Purchase of NCEMPA's Generation. In 2015, Duke Energy completed the acquisition of NCEMPA's ownership interest in some of Duke Energy Progress’s existing nuclear and coal generation for a total amount of approximately $1.25 billion. Duke Energy and NCEMPA signed a long-term wholesale contract to provide power to NCEMPA's customers previously served by the generation assets purchased by Duke Energy.

Sale of the Midwest Generation Business. In 2015, Duke Energy completed the sale of the Disposal Group to Dynegy for approximately $2.8 billion. This decision supports Duke Energy’s strategy to focus investments on businesses with more predictable and less volatile earnings. The proceeds from the sale were used, in part, to recapitalize Duke Energy through a stock repurchase program and deferrals of the issuance of long-term debt.

Operational Excellence of the Nuclear Fleet. Duke Energy’s nuclear fleet set a company record for total electricity production and demonstrated a combined capacity factor at approximately 94 percent, the 17th consecutive year above 90 percent on this plant reliability measure.

Coal Ash Management. On April 17, 2015, the EPA published the RCRA in the Federal Register, establishing rules to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. The RCRA, and the Coal Ash Act, as amended, finalized the legal framework related to coal ash management practices and ash basin closure. With final rules in place, Duke Energy has made significant progress toward closure of coal ash basins and has recommended excavation of 24 basins in the Carolinas. In addition, Duke Energy has performed comprehensive groundwater studies at each North Carolina basin and provided that information to the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), which was used by NCDEQ to risk-rank each North Carolina basin. These draft risk rankings provide additional direction for the closure of each basin.

Also in 2015, Duke Energy began closure activities on the four sites specified as high risk by the Coal Ash Act and at the W.S. Lee site in South Carolina. At each site, excavation has commenced, with coal ash moving off-site for use in structural fill or to lined landfills.

Deliver Merger Benefits. Duke Energy continues to focus on realizing benefits of the merger with Progress Energy. Duke Energy is on track to achieve the $687 million of guaranteed savings for customers in the Carolinas over five years. After three and a half years, Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress have generated approximately 90 percent of the guaranteed fuel and joint dispatch savings.

Grow the Dividend. In 2015, Duke Energy increased the growth rate of the dividend to an annual rate of approximately 4 percent. 

Duke Energy Objectives – 2016 and Beyond

Duke Energy will continue to deliver exceptional value to our customers, be an integral part of the communities in which we do business, and provide attractive returns to our investors. Duke Energy is committed to lead the way to cleaner, smarter energy solutions that customers value through a strategy focused on:

•Transformation of the customer experience to meet the changing customer expectations through enhanced convenience, control and choice in energy supply and usage.

•Modernization of the power grid to improve reliability and flexibility in support of increased distributed energy sources.

•Generation of cleaner energy through an increased amount of natural gas, renewables generation and the continued safe and reliable operation of nuclear plants.

•Operational excellence through engagement with employees and being one of the best safety performers in the industry. 

•Stakeholder engagement to ensure the regulatory rules in the states in which we operate benefit all customers.

Primary objectives toward the implementation of this strategy include:

Complete the Acquisition of Piedmont. As discussed above, Duke Energy will continue to pursue the remaining required regulatory approvals to achieve completion of the Piedmont acquisition in 2016. This acquisition will establish a broader gas infrastructure platform within Duke Energy.

Duke Energy expects to finance the acquisition through a combination of debt, newly issued equity and other cash sources.

Potential Sale of the Latin American Generation Business. On February 18, 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest the International Energy business segment, excluding the equity investment in NMC. The process remains in a preliminary stage and there have been no binding or non-binding offers requested or submitted. There is no specific timeline for execution of a potential transaction. The sale is expected to be dilutive to Duke Energy but would improve Duke Energy's risk profile and enhance its ability to generate more consistent earnings and cash flows over time. Proceeds from a successful sale would be used to fund the operations and growth of its domestic business.

Growth Initiatives. Duke Energy will continue to pursue regulatory, state and federal approval of the growth projects announced in 2015 and in earlier periods. These projects will support long-term adjusted earnings growth and support Duke Energy’s ability to continue providing its customers affordable, reliable energy from an increasingly diverse generation portfolio.

Growth in the Regulated Utilities business is expected to be supported by retail and wholesale load growth and significant investments. Duke Energy expects to invest between $4 billion and $5 billion annually in the Regulated Utilities business growth projects. Many of these projects will be recovered through riders such as transmission and distribution expenditures in Indiana and Ohio, as well as energy efficiency riders in the Carolinas. 

The Commercial Portfolio renewables business is a significant component of the Duke Energy growth strategy. Renewable projects enable Duke Energy to respond to customer interest in clean energy resources while increasing diversity in the generation portfolio. The portfolio of wind and solar is expected to continue growing as between $1 billion and $2 billion of capital is expected to be deployed over the next three years. Additionally, investments in the Atlantic Coast Pipeline add approximately $1 billion of capital spending through 2017. 

38

PART II

Duke Energy announced new growth initiatives in 2015, which include:

•Duke Energy Progress proposed an approximate $1 billion investment in the Western Carolinas Modernization Project. The project will retire and replace the existing coal units with two natural gas combined cycle 280 MW fired generation projects, a utility scale solar power plant and aggressive energy efficiency and demand-side management adoption in the region.

•Commercial Portfolio acquired a 7.5 percent ownership interest in Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC pipeline for a total estimated investment of approximately $225 million upon completion of the project.

Cost Management. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity into the business. Duke Energy committed to efficiencies following the merger with Progress Energy and is on track to meet those commitments. Additionally, there is potential for more productivity and efficiency gains leading to a target of 2016 operations and maintenance costs at or below 2015 levels.

Continue the Coal Ash Management Strategy. Duke Energy will continue the company's compliance strategy with the Coal Ash Act and RCRA. Duke Energy will update ash management plans to comply with the appropriate regulations and expand excavation and other compliance work at additional sites once plans and permits are approved.

Results of Operations

In this section, Duke Energy provides analysis and discussion of earnings and factors affecting earnings on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on the non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS. These items are measured as income from continuing operations net of income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, adjusted for the dollar and per-share impact of mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Portfolio segment and special items including the operating results of the Disposal Group classified as discontinued operations for GAAP purposes. Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Operating results of the Disposal Group sold to Dynegy are reported as discontinued operations, including a portion of the mark-to-market adjustments associated with derivative contracts. Management believes that including the operating results of the Disposal Group reported as discontinued operations better reflects its financial performance and therefore has included these results in adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS prior to the sale of the Disposal Group. Additionally, as a result of completing the sale of the Disposal Group during the second quarter of 2015, state income tax expense increased as state income tax apportionments changed. The additional tax expense was recognized in Continuing Operations on a GAAP basis. This impact to state income taxes has been excluded from the Commercial Portfolio segment for adjusted diluted EPS purposes as management believes these impacts are incidental to the sale of the Disposal Group. Derivative contracts are used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Portfolio segment. The mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately and, if associated with the Disposal Group, classified as discontinued operations, as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory treatment. The economic value of generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of input and output commodities (e.g., coal, electricity, natural gas). Economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to generation assets. Operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method. Management believes excluding impacts of mark-to-market changes of the derivative contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the derivative contract with the portion of economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for planning and forecasting and for reporting results to the Duke Energy Board of Directors (Board of Directors), employees, shareholders, analysts and investors concerning Duke Energy’s financial performance. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are Net Income Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation and Diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which include the dollar and per-share impact of special items, mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Portfolio segment and discontinued operations.

Management evaluates segment performance based on segment income. Segment income is defined as income from continuing operations net of income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Segment income, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management also uses adjusted segment income as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment performance. Adjusted segment income is a non-GAAP financial measure, as it is based upon segment income adjusted for the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Portfolio segment and special items, including the operating results of the Disposal Group classified as discontinued operations for GAAP purposes. Management believes the presentation of adjusted segment income as presented provides useful information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of a segment’s performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment income is segment income, which represents segment income from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Portfolio segment.

Duke Energy’s adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted EPS, and adjusted segment income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company because other entities may not calculate the measures in the same manner.

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.

39

PART II

Overview

The following table reconciles non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

PART II

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The variance in adjusted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to 2014, was primarily due to:

•Lower results in Latin America primarily due to lower demand, unfavorable hydrology in Brazil, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, a prior-year tax benefit related to the reorganization of Chilean operations, and lower dispatch in Central America due to increased competition; 

•Higher operations and maintenance expense primarily due to the prior-year benefit associated with the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, amounts related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, and higher planned fossil generation outage costs, partially offset by lower storm restoration costs;

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher depreciable base; and

•Lower equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates due to lower margins at NMC, largely driven by lower MTBE prices, partially offset by lower butane costs.

Partially offset by:

•Increased retail pricing primarily due to rate riders in most jurisdictions, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, equity returns related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, and higher base rates;

•Increased wholesale net margins largely due to increases in contracted amounts and prices and a new wholesale contract with NCEMPA;

•Retail sales growth of 0.6 percent;

•Higher results at the nonregulated Midwest generation business prior to its sale on April 2, 2015, due to higher PJM Interconnection LLC (PJM) capacity revenues and increased generation margins; and

•Reduction in shares outstanding due to the Duke Energy stock repurchase (only impacts per diluted share amounts in the tables above).

The variance in adjusted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 2013, was primarily due to:

•Increased retail pricing and riders primarily resulting from the implementation of revised rates in most jurisdictions;

•Favorable weather in 2014 compared to 2013;

•Higher PJM capacity revenues for the nonregulated Midwest generation business due to higher prices; and

•Higher results of the renewables business due to higher production from the wind and solar portfolios, lower costs and additional renewables investments.

Partially offset by:

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher depreciable asset base and lower reductions to cost of removal reserves; 

•Higher operations and maintenance expense due to higher storm costs, the timing of fossil plant outages and the impact of nuclear outage cost levelization;

•Lower post in-service debt returns due to projects added to customer rates; and

•Higher property and other non-income taxes.

41

PART II

Segment Results

The remaining information presented in this discussion of results of operations is on a GAAP basis.

Regulated Utilities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Regulated Utilities’ results increased due to an increase in wholesale power margins, growth in retail sales, and increased retail pricing primarily due to rate riders in most jurisdictions, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, and higher base rates primarily due to phasing of 2013 rate cases. These drivers were partially offset by impairment expense associated with the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement, higher operations and maintenance expenses, and increased depreciation and amortization expense. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $339 million decrease in fuel revenues driven primarily by overall lower fuel rates for electric retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers; and

•a $131 million decrease in revenues to recover gross receipts taxes due to the North Carolina Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act, which terminated the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014.

Partially offset by:

•a $175 million increase in wholesale power revenues, primarily due to additional volumes and capacity charges for customers served under long-term contracts, including the NCEMPA wholesale contract that became effective August 1, 2015; and

•a $79 million increase from retail sales growth (net of fuel revenue) reflecting increased demand.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $422 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to (i) lower natural gas and coal prices, (ii) lower volumes of coal and oil used in electric generation and (iii) lower gas prices and volumes to full-service retail gas customers, partially offset by (iv) higher volumes of natural gas used in electric generation; and

•a $116 million decrease in property and other taxes primarily due to the termination of the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax as mentioned above, and the partial reversal of a sales tax reserve recorded in 2014 at Duke Energy Indiana, partially offset by higher property taxes across multiple jurisdictions and a favorable 2014 Ohio gas excise tax settlement that did not recur in 2015.

Partially offset by:

•an $88 million impairment charge related to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information;

42

PART II

•a $56 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to planned nuclear spending and the prior-year benefit of the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, higher costs for customer programs and distribution projects, and higher maintenance costs at fossil generation stations primarily due to increased ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, partially offset by a 2014 litigation reserve related to the investigation of the Dan River coal ash spill (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information), and lower storm restoration costs; and

•a $55 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to increased plant in service.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in the pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 36.3 percent and 36.8 percent, respectively. 

Year Ended December 31, 2014 as Compared to 2013

Regulated Utilities’ results were positively impacted by higher retail pricing and rate riders, favorable weather, an increase in wholesale power margins, retail sales growth, and 2013 impairments and other charges. These impacts were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense, higher operation and maintenance costs, higher interest expense, and higher income tax expense. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $614 million increase in fuel revenues driven primarily by increased demand from electric retail customers resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher fuel rates for electric retail customers for all jurisdictions, except North Carolina. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers;

•a $556 million net increase in retail pricing primarily due to retail rate changes and updated rate riders;

•a $216 million increase in electric sales (net of fuel revenue) to retail customers due to more favorable weather conditions across the service territory. Compared to normal, weather was favorable in the Carolinas and Florida service territories, while weather in the Midwest was essentially normal;

•a $63 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to additional volumes and capacity charges for customers served under long-term contracts; and

•a $21 million increase from retail sales growth (net of fuel revenue) reflecting increased demand.

Partially offset by:

•a $139 million decrease in gross receipts tax revenue due to the NC Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act which terminated the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $611 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily related to (i) higher volumes of coal, and oil used in electric generation due primarily to increased generation resulting from favorable weather conditions, (ii) higher natural gas prices, and (iii) the application of the Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) settlement proceeds in 2013 for Duke Energy Florida; 

•a $436 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to increases in depreciation as a result of additional plant in service and amortization of regulatory assets, and higher 2013 reductions to cost of removal reserves in accordance with regulatory orders; and

•a $292 million increase in operating and maintenance expense primarily due to a litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the Dan River coal ash spill (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information), higher storm costs, repairs and remediation expenses associated with the Dan River coal ash discharge and other ash basin related assessment costs, and higher nuclear costs, including nuclear outage levelization costs, and higher environmental and operational costs that are recoverable in rates; partially offset by a 2013 Crystal River Unit 3 related settlement matter, decreased benefits costs and 2013 donations for low-income customers and job training in accordance with 2013 NCUC and PSCSC rate case orders. 

Partially offset by:

•a $346 million decrease due to the 2013 impairment and other charges primarily related to Crystal River Unit 3 and the proposed Levy Nuclear Station (Levy). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information;

•a $42 million decrease in property and other taxes primarily due to the termination of the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax as mentioned above; partially offset by a sales tax reserve as a result of an Indiana sales tax audit, and higher property taxes; and

•a $22 million decrease due to the 2013 impairment resulting from the decision to suspend the application for two proposed nuclear units at Shearon Harris Nuclear Plant (Harris).

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance is primarily due to recognition of post in-service equity returns for projects that had been completed prior to being reflected in customer rates, partially offset by lower Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) equity, primarily due to placing the Sutton Plant into service in late 2013.

43

PART II

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to no longer recording post in-service debt returns on projects reflected in customer rates and a reduction in debt return on the Crystal River Unit 3 regulatory asset recovered through fuel revenues.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to higher pretax income, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate of 36.8 percent compared to 37.8 percent, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. The decrease in effective tax rate is primarily due to favorable audit settlements, a higher manufacturing deduction due to prior year limitations based on taxable income, and changes in income apportionment for state income tax, partially offset by the non-deductible litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the Dan River coal ash spill.

Matters Impacting Future Regulated Utilities Results

Duke Energy is a party to multiple lawsuits and could be subject to fines and other penalties related to the Dan River coal ash release and operations at other North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits and potential fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Regulated Utilities’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. 

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Regulated Utilities' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

In 2013, a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued an initial decision that Duke Energy is responsible for costs associated with Multi Value Projects (MVP), a type of Transmission Expansion Planning (MTEP) cost, approved by MISO prior to the date of Duke Energy’s withdrawal. On October 29, 2015, the FERC issued an order reversing the ALJ's decision. FERC ruled that Duke Energy has no liability for MVP costs after its withdrawal from MISO. On November 30, 2015, MISO filed with the FERC a request for rehearing. MISO may appeal the FERC's decision if its request for rehearing is denied. If Duke Energy is deemed responsible for these costs, and if the regulatory commissions disallow recovery of these costs, there would be an adverse impact to Regulated Utilities' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

The FPSC approved an agreement on all securitization-related issues and issued a final financing order to securitize the Crystal River Unit 3 Regulatory asset with low-cost securities. Securitization will replace base rate recovery and result in a lower rate impact to customers. Securitization of the costs of the retired Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant would result in an initial acceleration of cash, followed by a reduction to Regulated Utilities’ future results of operations and ongoing cash flows as it would no longer earn an equity return on these costs. Under a previous settlement agreement with the FPSC, the allowed return on equity for Crystal River Unit 3 is limited to 70 percent of the approved return on equity, which is currently 10.5 percent. Regulated Utilities expects to issue the securitization bonds in the first half of 2016.

In September 2015, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a settlement agreement with multiple parties that will resolve all disputes, claims and issues from the IURC proceedings regarding the Edwardsport IGCC generating facility. In January 2016, additional parties joined a revised settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Regulated Utilities recognized an impairment and related charges of $93 million. Additionally, the agreement stipulates the recovery of the remaining regulatory asset over an eight-year period and confirms the conclusion that the in-service date for accounting and ratemaking purposes will remain June 7, 2013. The settlement agreement will also impose a cost cap for recoverable operations and maintenance retail costs of $73 million in 2016 and $77 million in 2017 as well as a cost cap for ongoing capital expenditures through 2017. As part of the settlement, Duke Energy Indiana committed to cease burning coal at Gallagher Station Units 2 and 4 by the end of 2022. The settlement is subject to IURC approval and if approved would resolve and close a number of outstanding issues pending before the IURC related to post commercial operating performance and recovery of ongoing operating and capital costs at Edwardsport. If the settlement is not approved, outstanding issues before the IURC related to Edwardsport would resume, the ultimate resolution of which could have an adverse impact on Regulated Utilities' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the inability to manage operating and capital costs under caps imposed under the settlement could have an adverse impact on Regulated Utilities' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Regulated Utilities continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Regulated Utilities could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Regulated Utilities cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

44

PART II

International Energy

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

International Energy’s results were impacted by the absence of prior-year taxes on repatriated foreign earnings, partially offset by lower results in Brazil due to lower demand, unfavorable hydrological conditions and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the absence of a prior year merger step-up tax benefit in Chile and lower earnings from NMC and Central America. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $177 million decrease in Brazil due to exchange rates, lower average spot prices and volumes, partially offset by higher average contract prices;

•a $122 million decrease in Central America due to lower average prices and volumes as a result of increased competition and unplanned outages; and

•a $27 million decrease in Peru due to lower average hydrocarbon prices and unfavorable exchanges rates, partially offset by higher energy sales volumes.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $105 million decrease in Brazil due to exchange rates and lower purchased power costs, partially offset by higher variable costs; 

•an $88 million decrease in Central America due to lower fuel costs; and

•a $31 million decrease in Peru due to lower hydrocarbon royalties, purchased power costs and fuel consumption and change in exchange rates.

Partially offset by:

•a $25 million increase in Ecuador due to an asset impairment loss, higher fuel consumption, and provision for asset retirement obligation.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance is primarily due to lower interest income in Brazil and lower equity earnings in NMC, as a result of lower average MTBE and methanol prices, and lower MTBE sales volumes, partially offset by lower butane costs.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to approximately $373 million of incremental tax expense in 2014 resulting from the decision to repatriate all cumulative historical undistributed foreign earnings. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 24.3 percent and 87.3 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the tax expense associated with the repatriation decision, partially offset by the favorable adjustment related to the merger of two Chilean subsidiaries recorded in 2014.

Year Ended December 31, 2014 as Compared to 2013

International Energy’s results were negatively impacted by higher tax expense resulting from the decision to repatriate historical undistributed foreign earnings, unfavorable hydrology and exchange rates in Brazil and an unplanned outage in Chile, partially offset by higher equity earnings in NMC and a 2013 net currency remeasurement loss in Latin America. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

45

PART II

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $44 million decrease in Peru as a result of lower sales volumes and exchange rates;

•a $35 million decrease in Brazil due to exchange rates and lower sales volumes partially offset by higher average prices;

•a $27 million decrease in Chile as a result of lower sales volumes due to an unplanned outage, and lower average prices; and 

•a $25 million decrease in Argentina due to exchange rates and lower average prices.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $75 million increase in Brazil due to higher purchased power as a result of unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by exchange rates.

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million decrease in Peru as a result of lower purchased power, transmission, and royalty costs; and

•a $26 million decrease in Argentina due to exchange rates and lower purchased power and fuel consumption.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance is primarily due to a 2013 net currency remeasurement loss in Latin America, higher interest income in Brazil, and higher equity earnings in NMC as a result of increased MTBE and methanol sales volumes, partially offset by lower average prices and higher butane costs.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to approximately $373 million of incremental tax expense in 2014 resulting from the decision to repatriate all cumulative historical undistributed foreign earnings. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 87.3 percent and 28.3 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was also primarily due to the tax expense associated with the repatriation decision.

Matters Impacting Future International Energy Results

International Energy's operations include conventional hydroelectric power generation facilities located in Brazil where water reservoirs are at abnormally low levels due to a lack of rainfall. Weather and economic conditions within Brazil have resulted in higher energy prices, a reduction in electricity demand and unfavorable impacts to the exchange rate of Brazil's currency. These weather and economic conditions have also resulted in lawsuits brought to the Brazilian courts by certain hydroelectric generators to limit the financial exposure to the generators. International Energy's earnings and future cash flows could continue to be adversely impacted by a further sustained period of low reservoir levels, a further decline of economic conditions within Brazil, or from the outcome of legal matters in the Brazilian courts.

International Energy's equity earnings from NMC reflect sales of methanol and MTBE, which generate margins that are directionally correlated with crude oil prices and the recent decline in crude oil prices have reduced the equity earnings realized from NMC. Continued weakness in the market price of Brent crude oil and related commodities will likely result in a further decline in equity earnings from NMC.

On February 18, 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest the International Energy business segment, excluding the equity method investment in NMC. Duke Energy is in the preliminary stage and no binding or non-binding offers have been requested or submitted. Duke Energy can provide no assurance that this process will result in a transaction and there is no specific timeline for execution of a potential transaction. If the potential of a sale were to progress, it could result in classification of International Energy as assets held for sale and as a discontinued operation. As of December 31, 2015, the International Energy segment had a carrying value of approximately $2.7 billion, adjusted to include the cumulative foreign currency translation losses currently classified as accumulated other comprehensive income.

46

PART II

Commercial Portfolio

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Commercial Portfolio’s results were positively impacted by the 2014 impairment recorded for an intangible asset and new solar generation, partially offset by unfavorable wind patterns. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $41 million increase in electric revenues due to the acquisition of REC Solar; and

•a $15 million increase in electric revenues from new solar generation placed in service.

Partially offset by:

•an $18 million decrease in electric revenues due to lower wind production.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by the $94 million pretax impairment related to Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC) in 2014.

Other Income and Expense, net. The variance was primarily due to lower equity earnings in the renewables portfolio due to lower wind production.

Interest Expense. The variance was driven primarily by capitalized interest from increased spending on wind and solar projects.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance is primarily due to a decrease in pretax losses and changes in state deferred taxes. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 103.4 percent and 75.5 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the impact of the production tax credits for the renewables portfolio, partially offset by changes to state apportionment factors on deferred taxes due to the Disposal Group sale. 

Year Ended December 31, 2014 as Compared to 2013

Commercial Portfolio’s results were impacted by higher production tax credits generation, higher production and lower operating costs by the renewables business and a prior-year loss recognized on certain renewables projects, partially offset by an impairment recorded for an intangible asset. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•an $8 million decrease in electric revenues for the Beckjord station, which is not included in the Disposal Group, driven from lower production as units have been retired;

•a $7 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power hedge contracts.

Partially offset by:

• a $16 million increase in electric revenues from higher production in the renewables portfolio.

47

PART II

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $94 million increase driven by an impairment related to OVEC. The impairment reduced the carrying amount of OVEC to zero. 

Partially offset by:

•an $18 million decrease in depreciation driven by discontinued amortization of an intangible asset that was impaired and written off in 2014 and extensions on the projected useful lives of assets in the renewable portfolio; 

•a $17 million decrease in fuel expense for the Beckjord station driven by lower cost of coal from decreased production as units have been retired;

•a $16 million decrease related to a 2013 legal settlement reserve related to previously disposed businesses;

•a $10 million decrease in general and administrative costs;

•a $9 million decrease in operations and maintenance expense for the renewables portfolio driven primarily by development cost reductions; and

•a $6 million decrease in property tax expense driven by cost reductions in the renewables portfolio resulting from a property tax abatement that went into effect in the current year. 

Losses on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The variance is attributable to a loss recognized on the sale of certain renewable development projects in 2013.

Other Income and Expense. The variance was primarily due to a net gain recognized for the sale of certain renewable development assets and increased equity earnings from higher production in the renewable wind portfolio.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to changes in state deferred taxes and higher production tax credits in 2014 for the Renewables portfolio. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 75.5 percent and 62.8 percent, respectively. 

Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Other’s results were impacted by lower Progress Energy merger costs, an increase in income tax benefit, severance accruals, and higher North Carolina franchise taxes. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to revenues from OVEC, which was shifted from the Commercial Portfolio segment to Other subsequent to the sale of the Disposal Group (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Business Segments.") 

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to severance accruals, higher charges in the current year due to the shift of the residual Midwest Generation business from the Commercial Portfolio segment to Other in 2015 (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Business Segments,") and higher North Carolina franchise taxes, partially offset by lower charges related to the Progress Energy merger and higher prior-year captive insurance loss experience.

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The variance was primarily due to the gain on sale of telecommunication leases.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to lower returns on investments that support benefit obligations, a gain on an investment sale in the prior year and lower investment income at Bison Insurance Company Limited, partially offset by interest income from the resolution of an income tax matter.

48

PART II

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax losses and higher effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 49.3 percent and 41.9 percent, respectively. 

Year Ended December 31, 2014 as Compared to 2013

Other’s results were negatively impacted by a decrease in income tax benefit. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to mark-to-market activity of mitigation sales related to the Progress Energy merger.

Operating Expenses. The decrease was primarily due to lower charges related to the Progress Energy merger and prior year Crescent Resources LLC (Crescent) litigation reserve, partially offset by unfavorable loss experience at Bison.

Other Income and Expenses. The decrease was primarily due to a gain on the sale of Duke Energy’s 50 percent ownership in DukeNet Communications Holdings, LLC (DukeNet) in 2013, partially offset by a current year investment sale gain and higher investment income at Bison.

Interest Expense. The variance was due primarily to lower interest on long-term debt resulting from debt maturities and new debt issued at lower rates.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to a state tax benefit recognized in 2013. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 41.9 percent and 58.6 percent, respectively. 

Matters Impacting Future Other Results

Duke Energy Ohio’s retired Beckjord generating station (Beckjord), previously an asset of Commercial Portfolio, became an asset of Other after the sale of the Disposal Group. Beckjord, a nonregulated facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the recently enacted EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash, the costs could have an adverse impact on Other's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

The variance was primarily driven by the 2014 impairment and unrealized mark-to-market losses on economic hedges, and favorable operating results in 2015, partially offset by a litigation reserve recorded in 2015, as discussed in Note 5, "Commitments and Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating results in 2015 were favorable primarily due to higher PJM capacity revenues related to higher average cleared capacity auction pricing, increased generation margins and lower depreciation expense. Included in the variance is the impact of ceasing depreciation on the assets of the Disposal Group beginning in the second quarter of 2014. The foregone depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, was approximately $40 million and $117 million, respectively.

Year Ended December 31, 2014 as Compared to 2013

The variance was primarily due to the 2014 $929 million pretax write-down of the carrying amount of the assets to the estimated fair value of the Disposal Group, based on the transaction price included in the purchase sale agreement (PSA), less estimated costs to sell and a $134 million pretax mark-to-market loss on economic hedges for the Disposal Group. 

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

PART II

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $219 million decrease in fuel revenues driven primarily by lower natural gas and coal prices, as well as change in fuel mix, partially offset by an increase in demand from customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers; and

•a $78 million decrease in revenues to recover gross receipts taxes due to the North Carolina Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act, which terminated the collection of North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014. 

Partially offset by:

•a $78 million increase in retail pricing and rate riders, which primarily reflects increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs and the second year base rate step-up from the 2013 South Carolina rate case;

•a $51 million increase from retail sales growth; and

•a $40 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to additional volumes for customers served under long-term contracts.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $252 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily related to lower natural gas and coal prices, as well as change in fuel mix; and

•a $47 million decrease in property and other tax expenses primarily due to the termination of the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax as mentioned above, partially offset by higher property tax expense.

Partially offset by:

•a $71 million increase in operations and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher expenses at generating plants, including the prior-year benefit of the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, severance expenses related to cost saving initiatives, higher energy efficiency program costs and higher distribution maintenance expenses, partially offset by a 2014 litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the Dan River coal ash spill, lower costs associated with the Progress Energy merger, and repairs and remediation expenses associated with the Dan River coal ash discharge in 2014; and 

•a $42 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher depreciation as a result of additional plant in service, partially offset by lower nuclear decommissioning costs and lower amortization of certain regulatory assets. 

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in recognition of post in-service equity returns for projects that had been completed prior to being reflected in customer rates.

Income Tax Expense. The variance is primarily due to an increase in the effective tax rate and higher pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 36.7 percent and 35.4 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to favorable audit settlements and changes in apportionment related to state income tax recorded in 2014, and a lower tax benefit related to the manufacturing deduction in 2015 as compared to 2014, partially offset by the non-deductible litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the Dan River coal ash spill recorded in 2014.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Duke Energy Carolinas is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to the Dan River coal ash release and operations at other North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

50

PART II

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy Carolinas continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Duke Energy Carolinas cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

PROGRESS ENERGY

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $118 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to a new NCEMPA contract effective August 1, 2015, coupled with increased overall demand rates and higher peak demand at Duke Energy Progress; and

•an $82 million increase in fuel revenues driven primarily by increased demand at Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers.

Partially offset by:

•a $113 decrease in rider revenues primarily due to a decrease in the nuclear cost recovery clause as a result of suspending Levy recovery, a decrease in energy conservation cost recovery clause and environmental cost recovery clause revenues due to lower recovery rates at Duke Energy Florida, partially offset by higher retail pricing and rate riders at Duke Energy Progress, which primarily reflect increased revenues related to the energy efficiency programs and the second year base rate step-up from the 2013 North Carolina retail rate case.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $29 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to recovery of prior year under-collections of fuel and increased purchased power, partially offset by lower fuel prices at Duke Energy Florida; and

51

PART II

•a $28 million increase in impairment charges primarily driven by a 2014 reversal of a prior-year impairment at Duke Energy Progress and current year impairments at Duke Energy Florida.

Partially offset by:

•a $37 million decrease in operations and maintenance expenses. For Duke Energy Progress, this was primarily due to a 2014 litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the management of North Carolina coal ash basins, lower storm restoration costs and a favorable pension expense adjustment recorded in 2015, partially offset by higher nuclear refueling outage expenses, including the prior-year benefit of the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, due to three refueling outages in 2015 compared to one outage during the same period in 2014, higher nuclear costs related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, and severance expenses related to cost savings initiatives. For Duke Energy Florida, this was primarily due to a decrease in expenses related to costs that were recoverable through the energy conservation cost recovery clause and environmental cost recovery clause; a decrease in employee and executive benefits; partially offset by an increase in expenses related to various information technology projects; 

•a $25 million decrease in property and other taxes primarily due to the North Carolina Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act, which terminated the collection of North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014, at Duke Energy Progress, partially offset by higher property tax rates and higher revenue related taxes at Duke Energy Florida; and

•a $12 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily due to reductions in amounts recovered through the nuclear cost recovery clause and the environmental cost recovery clauses at Duke Energy Florida, partially offset by higher depreciation related to additional plant in service at Duke Energy Progress.

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The variance was primarily due to the gain on sale of telecommunication leases.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance is due to higher AFUDC equity, primarily due to nuclear plant expenditures at Duke Energy Progress.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 32.9 percent and 38.0 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non-deductible litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the management of the coal ash basins in 2014, an increase in AFUDC equity in 2015, state tax benefits from corporate restructuring in 2015, and the release of tax reserves in 2015 due to expired statutes.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Progress Energy is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

The FPSC approved an agreement on all securitization-related issues and issued a final financing order to securitize the Crystal River Unit 3 Regulatory asset with low-cost securities. Securitization will replace base rate recovery and result in a lower rate impact to customers. Securitization of the costs of the retired Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant would result in an initial acceleration of cash, followed by a reduction to Progress Energy's future results of operations and ongoing cash flows as it would no longer earn an equity return on these costs. Under a previous settlement agreement with the FPSC, the allowed return on equity for Crystal River Unit 3 is limited to 70 percent of the approved return on equity, which is currently 10.5 percent. Progress Energy expects the securitization bonds to be issued in the first half of 2016.

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Progress Energy continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Progress Energy could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Progress Energy cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

52

PART II

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Progress is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Progress. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $100 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to a new NCEMPA contract effective August 1, 2015, and increased demand rates charged along with higher peak demand;

•a $34 million increase in retail pricing and rate riders, which primarily reflect increased revenues related to the energy efficiency programs and the second year base rate step-up from the 2013 North Carolina retail rate case; and 

•a $26 million increase in fuel revenues driven primarily by increased demand from wholesale and retail customers. 

Partially offset by:

•a $44 million decrease in revenues to recover gross receipts taxes due to the North Carolina Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act, which terminated the collection of North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014. 

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $61 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily due to higher depreciation related to additional plant in service; and

•an $18 million reversal in 2014 of a prior-year impairment. These charges related to planned transmission projects for which recovery is not expected, and certain cost associated with mitigation sales pursuant to merger settlement agreements with the FERC.

Partially offset by:

•a $34 million decrease in property and other taxes primarily due to the termination of the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax as mentioned above; and

•an $18 million decrease in operations and maintenance expenses, primarily due to a 2014 litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the management of North Carolina coal ash basins, lower storm restoration costs and a favorable pension expense adjustment recorded in 2015, partially offset by higher nuclear refueling outage expenses, including the prior-year benefit of the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, due to three refueling outages in 2015 compared to one outage during the same period in 2014, higher nuclear costs related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, and severance expenses in 2015 related to cost savings initiatives.

53

PART II

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance is due to higher AFUDC equity, primarily due to nuclear plant expenditures.

Income Tax Expense. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 34.2 percent and 37.9 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non-deductible litigation reserve related to the criminal investigation of the management of the coal ash basins in 2014, an increase in AFUDC equity, and the reduction of the North Carolina statutory corporate state income tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy Progress continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Duke Energy Progress could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Duke Energy Progress cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Florida is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54

PART II

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Florida. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Wholesale power sales include both billed and unbilled sales. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $56 million increase in fuel and capacity revenues driven by increased usage. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers;

•a $37 million increase due to retail sales growth;

•a $34 million increase driven by favorable weather conditions. Weather was also favorable to normal in 2015; and

•an $18 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily driven by increased capacity rates on contracts.

Partially offset by:

•a $147 million decrease in rider revenues primarily due to a decrease in the nuclear cost recovery clause as a result of suspending Levy recovery, a decrease in energy conservation cost recovery clause and environmental cost recovery clause revenues due to lower recovery rates.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $72 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense due to reductions in amounts recovered through the nuclear cost recovery clause and the environmental cost recovery clause; and 

•a $15 million decrease in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to a decrease in expenses related to costs that were recoverable through the energy conservation cost recovery clause and environmental cost recovery clause; and a decrease in employee and executive benefits; partially offset by an increase in expenses related to various information technology projects.

Partially offset by:

•a $37 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchase power related to recovery of prior year under-collections of fuel expense and increased purchased power, partially offset by lower fuel prices; and

•a $9 million increase in property and other taxes due to higher property tax rates and higher revenue related taxes.

Income Tax Expense. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 36.3 percent and 38.9 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a release of tax reserves due to expired statutes.

Matters Impacting Future Results

The FPSC approved an agreement on all securitization-related issues and issued a final financing order to securitize the Crystal River Unit 3 Regulatory asset with low-cost securities. Securitization will replace base rate recovery and result in a lower rate impact to customers. Securitization of the costs of the retired Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant would result in an initial acceleration of cash, followed by a reduction to Duke Energy Florida's future results of operations and ongoing cash flows as it would no longer earn an equity return on these costs. Under a previous settlement agreement with the FPSC, the allowed return on equity for Crystal River Unit 3 is limited to 70 percent of the approved return on equity, which is currently 10.5 percent. Duke Energy Florida expects to issue the securitization bonds in the first half of 2016.

55

PART II

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy Florida continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Duke Energy Florida could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Duke Energy Florida cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in Regulated Utilities' GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Ohio. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $66 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily driven by lower electric fuel and natural gas costs and decreased sales volume;

•an $11 million decrease in electric and natural gas sales to retail customers due to unfavorable weather conditions compared to both the prior year and to normal weather; and 

•a $10 million decrease due to an Ohio regulatory order that reduced certain energy efficiency rider revenues (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters.").

56

PART II

Partially offset by: 

•a $29 million increase in Kentucky wholesale revenues primarily due to the purchase of the additional capacity in the East Bend Station in December 2014, the profits from which are shared with Duke Energy Kentucky retail customers; 

•a $19 million increase in regulated natural gas rate riders primarily due to rate increases;

•a $19 million increase in Ohio other revenues related to OVEC; and

•a $16 million increase in electric rate riders, excluding Ohio energy efficiency, due to rate increases and 2014 true-ups.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by the $94 million pretax impairment related to OVEC in 2014. 

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income, partially offset by a decrease in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 35.2 percent and 38.9 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a favorable adjustment in 2015. 

Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The variance was primarily driven by the 2014 impairment and unrealized mark-to-market losses on economic hedges for the Disposal Group and favorable operating results in 2015, partially offset by a litigation reserve recorded in 2015, as discussed in Note 5, "Commitments and Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating results in 2015 were favorable primarily due to higher PJM capacity revenues related to higher average cleared capacity auction pricing, increased generation margins and lower depreciation expense. Included in the variance is the impact of ceasing depreciation on the assets of the Disposal Group beginning in the second quarter of 2014. The foregone depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, was approximately $40 million and $121 million, respectively.

Matters Impacting Future Results

In 2013, a FERC ALJ issued an initial decision that Duke Energy Ohio is responsible for costs associated with certain MVP costs, a type of MTEP cost, approved by MISO prior to the date of Duke Energy Ohio’s withdrawal. On October 29, 2015, the FERC issued an order reversing the ALJ's decision. FERC ruled that Duke Energy Ohio has no liability for MVP costs after its withdrawal from MISO. On November 30, 2015, MISO filed with the FERC a request for rehearing. If Duke Energy Ohio is deemed responsible for these costs upon appeal, and if the regulatory commissions disallow recovery of these costs, there would be an adverse impact to Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

Duke Energy Ohio’s nonregulated Beckjord station, a facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the recently enacted EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash at the facility, the costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy Ohio continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Duke Energy Ohio could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

57

PART II

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Indiana. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $265 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily due to a decrease in fuel rates as a result of lower fuel and purchased power costs.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $277 million decrease in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to lower fuel prices; and

•a $67 million decrease in property and other taxes, primarily as a result of lower sales and use tax. In 2014, an approximate $40 million other tax reserve was recorded, a portion of which was reversed in 2015 upon settlement of the matter. 

Partially offset by:

•an $88 million impairment charge related to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlements. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Other Income and Expense, net. The variance was primarily due to lower AFUDC equity due to Cayuga scrubbers placed into service in July 2015 and a lower rate compared to the prior year, partially offset by favorable interest income.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 34.0 percent and 35.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a favorable adjustment in 2015. 

Matters Impacting Future Results

Duke Energy Indiana is evaluating converting Wabash River Unit 6 to a natural gas-fired unit or retiring the unit earlier than its current estimated useful life. If Duke Energy Indiana elects early retirement of the unit, recovery of remaining book values and associated carrying costs totaling approximately $40 million could be subject to future regulatory approvals and therefore cannot be assured.

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. Duke Energy Indiana has interpreted the rule to identify the coal ash basin sites impacted and has assessed the amounts of coal ash subject to the rule and a method of compliance. Duke Energy Indiana's interpretation of the requirements of the CCR rule is subject to potential legal challenges and further regulatory approvals, which could result in additional ash basin closure requirements, higher costs of compliance and greater asset retirement obligations. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

58

PART II

In September 2015, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a settlement agreement with multiple parties that will resolve all disputes, claims and issues from the IURC proceedings regarding the Edwardsport IGCC generating facility. In January 2016, additional parties joined a revised settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Duke Energy Indiana recognized an impairment and related charges of $93 million. Additionally, the settlement agreement stipulates the recovery of the remaining regulatory asset over an eight-year period and confirms the conclusion that the in-service date for accounting and ratemaking purposes will remain June 7, 2013. The settlement agreement will also impose a cost cap for recoverable operations and maintenance retail costs of $73 million in 2016 and $77 million in 2017 as well as a cost cap for ongoing capital expenditures through 2017. As part of the settlement, Duke Energy Indiana committed to cease burning coal at Gallagher Station Unit 2 and 4 by the end of 2022. The settlement is subject to IURC approval and, if approved, would resolve and close a number of outstanding issues pending before the IURC related to post commercial operating performance and recovery of ongoing operating and capital costs at Edwardsport. If the settlement is not approved, outstanding issues before the IURC related to Edwardsport would resume, the ultimate resolution of which could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the inability to manage operating and capital costs under caps imposed under the settlement could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule for regulating CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016, or no later than September 6, 2018, with an approved extension. These state plans are subject to EPA approval, with a federal plan applied to states that fail to submit a plan to the EPA or if a state plan is not approved. Legal challenges to the CPP have been filed by stakeholders and motions to stay the requirements of the rule pending the outcome of the litigation have been filed. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a Motion to Stay in February 2016, effectively blocking enforcement of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. Final resolution of these legal challenges could take several years. Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables, especially in states that have significant CO2 reduction targets under the rule. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, and this may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. Duke Energy Indiana continues to evaluate the need to retire generating facilities and plans to seek regulatory recovery, where appropriate, for amounts that have not been recovered upon asset retirements. However, recovery is subject to future regulatory approval, including the recovery of carrying costs on remaining book values, and therefore cannot be assured. In addition, Duke Energy Indiana could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Duke Energy Indiana cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies, judgments, assumptions and estimates that can significantly affect the reported results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Judgments made include the likelihood of success of particular projects, possible legal and regulatory challenges, earnings assumptions on pension and other benefit fund investments and anticipated recovery of costs, especially through regulated operations. 

Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with senior members of management on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management believes the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods.

For further information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Regulatory Accounting

Regulated Utilities, Duke Energy’s regulated operations, meets the criteria for application of regulatory accounting treatment for substantially all of its operations. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that would not be recorded for nonregulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds or reduce rates to customers for previous collections or for costs that have yet to be incurred.

Management continually assesses whether recorded regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, litigation of rate orders, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, levels of actual return on equity compared to approved rates of return on equity, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, asset write-offs would be recognized in operating income. Additionally, regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of asset retirement costs, and amortization of regulatory assets, or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. For further information on regulatory assets and liabilities, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

As required by regulated operations accounting rules, significant judgment can be required to determine if an otherwise recognizable incurred cost, such as closure costs for ash impoundments, qualifies to be deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Significant judgment can also be required to determine if revenues previously recognized are for entity specific costs that are no longer expected to be incurred and are therefore a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for a more in-depth discussion of Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

59

PART II

Regulatory accounting rules also require recognition of a disallowance (also called "impairment") loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction (or a recently completed plant or an abandoned plant) will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. For example, if a cost cap is set for a plant still under construction, the amount of the disallowance is a result of a judgment as to the ultimate cost of the plant. Other disallowances can require judgments on allowed future rate recovery. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of disallowances recorded related to the Edwardsport IGCC Plant and the retired Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant. 

When it becomes probable that regulated generation, transmission or distribution assets will be abandoned, the cost of the asset is removed from plant in service. The value that may be retained as a regulatory asset on the balance sheet for the abandoned property is dependent upon amounts that may be recovered through regulated rates, including any return. As such, an impairment charge, if any, could be offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset if rate recovery is probable. The impairment for a disallowance of costs for regulated plants under construction, recently completed or abandoned is based on discounted cash flows.

For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters."

Goodwill Impairment Assessments

Duke Energy allocates goodwill to reporting units, which are either the Business Segments listed in Note 3 or one level below based on how the Business Segment is managed. Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and more frequently if it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying value. Duke Energy performs its annual impairment test as of August 31.

Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of the income approach, which estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates fair value based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, future rates of return expected to result from ongoing rate regulation, utility sector market performance and transactions, projected operating and capital cash flows for Duke Energy’s business and the fair value of debt.

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third-party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service, the renewal of certain contracts and the future of renewable tax credits. Management also makes assumptions regarding operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory and economic stability, the ability to renew contracts and other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. A major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on 20-year U.S. Treasury bonds. In the 2015 impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACCs for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2015, for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units ranged from 5.9 percent to 7.1 percent.

For Duke Energy’s international operations, a country-specific risk adder based on the average risk premium for each separate country in which International Energy operates was added to the base discount rate to reflect the differing risk profiles. This resulted in a discount rate for the August 31, 2015, goodwill impairment test for the international operations of 10.5 percent.

The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates, authorized regulated rates of return or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges.

The majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, significant changes in discount rates over a prolonged period may have a material impact on the fair value of equity.

As of August 31, 2015, all of the reporting units’ estimated fair value of equity substantially exceeded the carrying value of equity.

For further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets."

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments, Excluding Regulated Operations

Property, plant and equipment, excluding plant held for sale, is stated at the lower of carrying value (historical cost less accumulated depreciation and previously recorded impairments) or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances (such as a significant change in cash flow projections, the determination that it is more likely than not an asset or asset group will be sold) indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with their carrying value.

60

PART II

Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets, and developing the undiscounted future cash flows. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. Additionally, determining fair value requires probability weighting future cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less cost to sell to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

When determining whether an asset or asset group has been impaired, management groups assets at the lowest level that has discrete cash flows. 

For further information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisition and Dispositions." 

Accounting for Loss Contingencies

Preparation of financial statements and related disclosures require judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events. Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters arising in the normal course of business. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.

For further information, see Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Commitments and Contingencies.”

Revenue Recognition 

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Operating revenues include unbilled electric and gas revenues earned when service has been delivered but not billed by the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh) or per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh or Mcf delivered but not billed. Unbilled wholesale energy revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MWh to the number of estimated MWh delivered but not yet billed. Unbilled wholesale demand revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MW to the MW volume delivered but not yet billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns, customer mix, timing of rendering customer bills, and the average price in effect for customer classes. 

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and net pension and other post-retirement assets or liabilities require the use of assumptions and election of permissible accounting alternatives. Changes in assumptions can result in different expense and reported asset or liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate applied to future benefit payments. Additionally, the health care cost trend rate assumption is critical to Duke Energy’s estimate of other post-retirement benefits.

Duke Energy elects to amortize net actuarial gains or losses in excess of the corridor of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or plan projected benefit obligation, into net pension or other post-retirement benefit expense over the average remaining service period of active covered employees. Prior service cost or credit, which represents the effect on plan liabilities due to plan amendments, is amortized over the average remaining service period of active covered employees.

Duke Energy maintains non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits based upon a percentage of current eligible earnings based on age and years of service and current interest credits. Certain employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. As of January 1, 2014, the qualified and non-qualified non-contributory defined benefit plans are closed to new and rehired non-union, and certain unionized employees.

Duke Energy provides some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.

As of December 31, 2015, Duke Energy assumes pension and other post-retirement plan assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 6.50 percent. The expected long-term rate of return was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers, where applicable. Equity securities are held for their higher expected returns. Debt securities are primarily held to hedge the pension liability. Hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers on investments. In 2013, Duke Energy adopted a de-risking investment strategy for its pension assets. As the funded status of the plans increase, over time the targeted allocation to return seeking assets will be reduced and the targeted allocation to fixed-income assets will be increased to better manage Duke Energy's pension liability and reduced funded status volatility. Effective January 1, 2016, based on the current funded status of the plans, the asset allocation for the Duke Energy pension plans has been adjusted to 63 percent fixed-income assets and 37 percent return-seeking assets. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate.

61

PART II

The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I). The investment objective of VEBA I is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. VEBA I is passively managed. 

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 4.4 percent as of December 31, 2015. Discount rates used to measure benefit plan obligations for financial reporting purposes reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2015, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to match the timing of projected benefit payments. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. Duke Energy cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2015 pretax pension expense, pretax other post-retirement expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25 percent change in rates were to occur.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s U.S. other post-retirement plan uses a health care trend rate covering both pre- and post-age 65 retired plan participants, which is comprised of a medical care trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in medical costs, and a prescription drug trend rate, which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug costs. As of December 31, 2015, the health care trend rate was 7.5 percent, trending down to 4.75 percent by 2023. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2015 pretax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1 percentage point change in the health care trend rate were to occur.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, debt issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its domestic liquidity and capital requirements. Duke Energy’s capital requirements arise primarily from capital and investment expenditures, repaying long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. Duke Energy’s projected primary sources and uses for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Uses and Sources exclude amounts related to payments for or proceeds from the planned acquisition of Piedmont and possible sale of the International Energy segment.

(b)Excludes capital leases and securitized receivables maturities in 2016 and 2017 expected to be renewed. Amounts represent Duke Energy's financing plan, which accelerates certain contractual maturities.

62

PART II

(c)Includes expenditures related to ash basin closures.

On October 24, 2015, Duke Energy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., (Piedmont) a North Carolina corporation. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Duke Energy will acquire Piedmont for $4.9 billion in cash and will assume Piedmont's existing debt, which was approximately $1.9 billion at October 31, 2015, the end of Piedmont's most recent fiscal year. Duke Energy expects to finance the transaction with a combination of debt, between $500 million and $750 million of newly issued equity and other cash sources. Duke Energy has a fully underwritten bridge facility to support funding of the merger. For further information on the Piedmont acquisition, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions." 

During 2014, Duke Energy declared a taxable dividend of foreign earnings in the form of notes payable that was intended to result in the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion of cash held and expected to be generated by International Energy over a period of up to eight years. In 2015, approximately $1.5 billion was remitted. Approximately $300 million is expected to be remitted in 2016, with the remaining amount remitted by 2022. Duke Energy announced on February 18, 2016, it had initiated a process to divest the International Energy business segment, excluding the equity method investment in NMC. Duke Energy is in the preliminary stage and no binding or non-binding offers have been requested or submitted. Duke Energy can provide no assurance that this process will result in a transaction. Additional proceeds from the notes payable or from a successful sale of International Energy will principally be used to fund the operations and growth of its domestic businesses. 

The Subsidiary Registrants generally maintain minimal cash balances and use short-term borrowings to meet their working capital needs and other cash requirements. The Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, support their short-term borrowing needs through participation with Duke Energy and certain of its other subsidiaries in a money pool arrangement. The companies with short-term funds may provide short-term loans to affiliates participating under this arrangement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” for additional discussion of the money pool arrangement.

Duke Energy and the Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, may also use short-term debt, including commercial paper and the money pool, as a bridge to long-term debt financings. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly over the course of the year due to the timing of long-term debt financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows from operations. From time to time, Duke Energy’s current liabilities exceed current assets resulting from the use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet scheduled maturities of long-term debt, as well as cash needs, which can fluctuate due to the seasonality of its business.

Credit Facilities and Registration Statements

Master Credit Facility Summary

Duke Energy has a Master Credit Facility with a capacity of $7.5 billion through January 2020. The Duke Energy Registrants, excluding Progress Energy (Parent), have borrowing capacity under the Master Credit Facility up to specified sublimits for each borrower. Duke Energy has the unilateral ability at any time to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to a maximum sublimit for each borrower. The amount available under the Master Credit Facility has been reduced to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, certain letters of credit and variable-rate demand tax-exempt bonds that may be put to the Duke Energy Registrants at the option of the holder and as security to meet obligations under the Plea Agreements. The table below includes the current borrowing sublimits and available capacity under the Master Credit Facility. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents the sublimit of each borrower at December 31, 2015. The Duke Energy Ohio sublimit includes $125 million for Duke Energy Kentucky.

(b)Duke Energy issued $625 million of commercial paper and loaned the proceeds through the money pool to Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. The balances are included within Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Companies in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(c)On May 14, 2015, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina approved the separate Plea Agreements entered into by Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Business Services, LLC (DEBS), a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, in connection with the investigation initiated by the USDOJ. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress are required to each maintain $250 million of available capacity under the Master Credit Facility as security to meet their obligations under the Plea Agreements, in addition to certain other conditions. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

63

PART II

Piedmont Bridge Facility

In connection with the Merger Agreement with Piedmont, Duke Energy entered into a $4.9 billion Bridge Facility with Barclays. The Bridge Facility, if drawn upon, may be used to (i) fund the cash consideration for the transaction and (ii) pay certain fees and expenses in connection with the transaction. In November 2015, Barclays syndicated its commitment under the Bridge Facility to a broader group of lenders. Duke Energy intends to finance the transaction with proceeds raised through the issuance of debt, equity and other sources as noted above and, therefore, does not expect to draw upon the Bridge Facility.

Short-Term Loan Facility

On February 22, 2016, Duke Energy entered into a six-month term loan facility (Term Loan) with commitments totaling $1 billion to provide additional flexibility in managing short-term liquidity. The Term Loan can be drawn upon in a single borrowing of up to $1 billion, which must occur no later than 45 calendar days following February 22, 2016. As of February 24, 2016, no amounts have been drawn under the Term Loan. Amounts drawn under this facility, if any, will be due on August 19, 2016. The terms and conditions of this Term Loan are generally consistent with those governing the Master Credit Facility discussed above.

Shelf Registration

In September 2013, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, the Duke Energy Registrants, excluding Progress Energy may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Based on this goal, the majority of Duke Energy’s total projected capital expenditures are allocated to the Regulated Utilities segment. Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEBT MATURITIES

The following table shows the significant components of Current maturities of Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Duke Energy Registrants currently anticipate satisfying these obligations with cash on hand and proceeds from additional borrowings.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DIVIDEND PAYMENTS

In 2015, Duke Energy paid quarterly cash dividends for the 90th consecutive year and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.

64

PART II

Through 2020, the dividend payout ratio is expected to be between 70 and 75 percent, based upon adjusted diluted EPS. Over the past several years, Duke Energy’s dividend has grown at approximately 2 percent annually, slower than overall adjusted earnings growth. In 2015, Duke Energy increased the dividend payout to grow the dividend at approximately 4 percent annually, better matching expected future earnings growth.

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy’s wholly owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy through dividends, advances or loans as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with merger transactions. Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also have restrictions imposed by their first mortgage bond indentures and Articles of Incorporation which in certain circumstances limit their ability to make cash dividends or distributions on common stock. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2015, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is less than 25 percent of Duke Energy’s net assets. Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated equity accounts. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have a significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

The relatively stable operating cash flows of Regulated Utilities compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations. Regulated Utilities’ cash flows from operations are primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas and costs of operations. Weather conditions, working capital and commodity price fluctuations, and unanticipated expenses including unplanned plant outages, storms, and legal costs and related settlements can affect the timing and level of cash flows from operations. 

Duke Energy believes it has sufficient liquidity resources through the commercial paper markets, and ultimately, the Master Credit Facility, to support these operations. Cash flows from operations are subject to a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional information).

At December 31, 2015, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $857 million, of which approximately $534 million is held by entities domiciled in foreign jurisdictions. In December 2014, Duke Energy declared a taxable dividend of historical foreign earnings in the form of notes payable that was expected to result in the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion of cash held and expected to be generated by International Energy over a period of up to eight years. In 2015, approximately $1.5 billion was remitted. 

As of December 31, 2015, Duke Energy’s intention was to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings generated by Duke Energy's foreign subsidiaries. As a result, no U.S. tax is recorded on such earnings of approximately $250 million. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to undistributed earnings was approximately $12 million. On February 18, 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest the International Energy business segment, excluding the investment in NMC. See Note 2 for further information. Accordingly, Duke Energy no longer intends to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed foreign earnings of International Energy and will therefore record U.S. taxes related to International Energy's undistributed foreign earnings during the first quarter of 2016. 

Proceeds from the notes payable or from a successful sale of International Energy will principally be used to fund the operations and growth of its domestic businesses. 

DEBT ISSUANCES

Depending on availability based on the issuing entity, the credit rating of the issuing entity, and market conditions, the Subsidiary Registrants prefer to issue first mortgage bonds and secured debt, followed by unsecured debt. This preference is the result of generally higher credit ratings for first mortgage bonds and secured debt, which typically result in lower interest costs. Duke Energy Corporation primarily issues unsecured debt.

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.2 times for 2015, 3.2 times for 2014, and 3.0 times for 2013.

Restrictive Debt Covenants

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. The Master Credit Facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65 percent for each borrower. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements or sublimits thereto. As of December 31, 2015, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.

65

PART II

Credit Ratings

The Duke Energy Registrants each hold credit ratings by Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P). The following table includes Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries’ credit ratings and ratings outlook as of February 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit ratings are intended to provide credit lenders a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit ratings are dependent on the rating agencies’ assessments of their ability to meet their debt principal and interest obligations when they come due. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to maintain current balance sheet strength, or if earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, credit ratings could be negatively impacted.

Cash Flow Information

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

66

PART II

OPERATING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal year.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $376 million increase in net income after non-cash adjustments resulting from increased retail pricing due to rate riders and higher base rates, increased wholesale net margins due to higher contracted amounts and prices, a new wholesale contract with NCEMPA, retail sales growth and

•a $294 million increase in cash flows from a working capital decrease primarily due to lower current year receivables resulting from unseasonably warmer weather in December 2015 and prior year under collection of fuel and purchased power due to increased consumption.

Partially offset by:

•a $302 million increase in contributions to qualified pension plans and

•a $278 million increase in payments for asset retirement obligations.

For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $204 million increase due to prior year contributions to qualified pension plans, favorable retail pricing and rate riders and favorable weather, partially offset by current year under collection of fuel and purchased power costs and timing of cash payments for operations and maintenance expenses.

INVESTING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s investing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $2,789 million increase in proceeds mainly due to sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business to Dynegy and

•a $202 million return of collateral related to the Chilean acquisition in 2013. The collateral was used to repay a secured loan.

67

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $2,835 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the acquisition of NCEMPA ownership interests in certain generating assets, fuel and spare parts inventory jointly owned with and operated by Duke Energy Progress and growth initiatives in electric and natural gas infrastructure, solar projects and natural-gas fired generation.

For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $192 million return of collateral related to the Chilean hydro acquisition in 2013 and

•a $150 million decrease in net proceeds from sales and maturities of available for sale securities, net of purchases.

FINANCING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s financing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,500 million increase in cash outflows due to the repurchase of 19.8 million common shares under the ASR and 

•a $443 million decrease in proceeds from net issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, primarily due to prior year financing with short-term debt in advance of the 2015 receipt of proceeds from the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business to Dynegy, net of current year financing with short-term debt used to repay long-term debt maturities at Duke Energy Florida in advance of the 2016 proceeds from the proposed issuance of securitization bonds related to Crystal River Unit 3. 

For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,595 million increase in proceeds from net issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, primarily due to funding a larger proportion of total financing needs with short-term debt in advance of the receipt in 2015 of proceeds from the sale of the Midwest Generation business.

Partially offset by:

•a $963 million decrease in net issuances of long-term debt, primarily due to funding a larger proportion of total financing needs with short-term debt in 2014 than in 2013.

Summary of Significant Debt Issuances

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

68

PART II

(a)Proceeds were used to repay short-term money pool and commercial paper borrowing issued to fund a portion of the NCEMPA acquisition, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions, Dispositions and Sales of Other Assets", for further information. 

(b)Proceeds were used to refinance at maturity $300 million of unsecured notes at Progress Energy due January 2016.

(c)Proceeds were used to redeem at maturity $500 million of first mortgage bonds due October 2015.

(d)Proceeds were used to refinance at maturity $400 million of first mortgage bonds due December 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Proceeds were used to redeem $402 million of tax-exempt bonds at Duke Energy Ohio, the repayment of outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Related Party Transactions" for additional information related to the redemption of Duke Energy Ohio's tax-exempt bonds. 

(b)The debt is floating rate based on three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a fixed credit spread of 38 basis points.

(c)Proceeds were used to repay $196 million of debt for International Energy and for general corporate purposes. The interest rates include country specific risk premiums.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)Proceeds were used to fund a portion of Duke Energy's prior investment in the existing Wind Star renewables portfolio.

(f)Proceeds were used to repay short-term borrowings under the intercompany money pool borrowing arrangement and for general corporate purposes.

(g)The debt is floating rate based on three-month LIBOR plus a fixed credit spread of 20 basis points.

(h)Proceeds were used to repay to redeem $450 million of tax-exempt bonds, repay short-term borrowings under the intercompany money pool borrowing arrangement and for general corporate purposes.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not always included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the January 2, 2007, spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp (Spectra Energy), having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of their respective guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been incurred as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by third parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees.

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

69

PART II

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above, normal operating lease arrangements and off-balance sheet debt related to non-consolidated VIEs, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information, see Note 5 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively.

Contractual Obligations

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”

(b)Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using December 31, 2015, interest rates and holding them constant for the life of the instruments.

(c)See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates stated in the lease agreements and exclude certain related executory costs.

(d)Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.

(e)Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity and natural gas transportation contracts, as well as undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on market prices at December 31, 2015, or the best projections of the index. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting arrangements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.

(f)Amounts exclude obligations under the OVEC purchase power agreement. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(g)Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, maintenance and day to day contract work at certain wind and solar facilities and commitments to buy wind and combustion turbines. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.

(h)Related to future annual funding obligations to NDTF through nuclear power stations' re-licensing dates. Amounts through 2017 include North Carolina jurisdictional amounts that Duke Energy Progress retained internally and is transitioning to its external decommissioning funds per a 2008 NCUC order. The transition of the original $131 million must be complete by December 31, 2017, and at least 10 percent must be transitioned each year. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(j)The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing and amount of cash payments that will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"), asset retirement obligations, including ash management expenditures (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations") and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year.

70

PART II

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Risk Management Policies

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Duke Energy has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.

The following disclosures about market risk contain forward-looking statements that involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Please review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” for a discussion of the factors that may impact any such forward-looking statements made herein.

Commodity Price Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its operations in its Regulated Utilities segment as these operations are typically allowed to recover substantially all of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when they are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations.

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging.”

The inputs and methodologies used to determine the fair value of contracts are validated by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination function. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in its pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.

Hedging Strategies

Duke Energy closely monitors risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.

The majority of instruments used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.

Duke Energy may also enter into other contracts that qualify for the normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS) exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as an NPNS, Duke Energy applies such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of the commodity. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.

Generation Portfolio Risks 

Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the Regulated Utilities segment. The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their generation portfolios, which include generation assets, fuel, and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output and fuel requirements are based on forward power and fuel markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. 

For the Regulated Utilities segment, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations. However, the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. 

International Energy generally hedges their expected generation using long-term bilateral power sales contracts when favorable market conditions exist and are subject to wholesale commodity price risks for electricity not sold under such contracts. International Energy dispatches electricity not sold under long-term bilateral contracts into unregulated markets and receives wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from national system operators.

71

PART II

Interest Rate Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total debt and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14, and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Derivatives and Hedging,” and “Fair Value Measurements.”

At December 31, 2015, Duke Energy had $727 million notional amount of floating-to-fixed swaps outstanding, $500 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating swaps outstanding and $1,300 million forward-starting swaps outstanding. In the first quarter of 2016, Duke Energy entered into an additional $500 million notional amount of forward-starting swaps. Duke Energy had $7.9 billion of unhedged long- and short-term floating interest rate exposure at December 31, 2015. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates on pretax income is approximately $79 million at December 31, 2015. This amount was estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges as of December 31, 2015.

See Notes 2 and 14, "Acquisitions and Dispositions" and Derivatives and Hedging," respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the forward-starting interest rate swaps related to the Piedmont acquisition.

Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparty's financial condition prior to entering into an agreement and monitor exposure on an on-going basis. The Duke Energy Registrants establish credit limits where appropriate in the context of contractual arrangements and monitor such limits. 

To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to include netting provisions with counterparties which permit the offset of receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants also frequently use master agreements with credit support annexes to further mitigate certain credit exposures. The master agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions. 

The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from certain counterparties to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the counterparty and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments. 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal counterparties for its electric and gas businesses are regional transmission organizations, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of receivables may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk from transactions with their suppliers that involve pre-payments in conjunction with outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and certain commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance. The Duke Energy Registrants' frequently require guarantees or letters of credit from suppliers to mitigate this credit risk.

Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit, letter of credit or surety bond until a satisfactory payment history is established, subject to the rules and regulations in effect in each retail jurisdiction, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables Company, LLC (CRC), a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.” 

Duke Energy Carolinas has third-party insurance to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self-insured retention. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self-insurance retention in 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by the third-party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $847 million in excess of the self-insured retention. Receivables for insurance recoveries were $599 million and $616 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts are classified in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy Carolinas is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Duke Energy Carolinas believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that they could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by the Duke Energy Registrants. 

72

PART II

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty. 

Marketable Securities Price Risk

As described further in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations. The vast majority of investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.

Pension Plan Assets

Duke Energy maintains investments to facilitate funding the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in these pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held.

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase funding of its pension plans in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods.

Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds

As required by the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC, subsidiaries of Duke Energy maintain trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2015, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC, Internal Revenue Code, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy actively monitors its portfolios by benchmarking the performance of its investments against certain indices and by maintaining, and periodically reviewing, target allocation percentages for various asset classes. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through retail and wholesale rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are primarily deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to Orders by the NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through retail and wholesale rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” for additional information regarding NDTF assets.

Foreign Currency Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international businesses owned and operated in countries outside the U.S. and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.

Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian real. The table below summarizes the potential effect of foreign currency devaluations on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.

Summary of Sensitivity Analysis for Foreign Currency Risks

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Amounts represent the potential annual net pretax loss on the translation of local currency earnings to the U.S. dollar in

2015 and 2014, respectively.

(b)Amounts represent the potential impact to the currency translation through Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

73

PART II

OTHER MATTERS

Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

The Duke Energy Registrants’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges, as calculated using SEC guidelines, are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Environmental Regulations

Duke Energy is subject to international, federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. The Subsidiary Registrants are subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. These regulations can be changed from time to time and result in new obligations of the Duke Energy Registrants.

The following sections outline various proposed and recently enacted regulations that may impact the Duke Energy Registrants. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for further information regarding potential plant retirements and regulatory filings related to the Duke Energy Registrants.

Coal Combustion Residuals

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. The federal regulation, which became effective in October 2015, classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste under Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and allows for beneficial use of CCR with some restrictions. The regulation applies to all new and existing landfills, new and existing surface impoundments receiving CCR and existing surface impoundments that are no longer receiving CCR but contain liquid located at stations currently generating electricity (regardless of fuel source). The rule establishes requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring and protection procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to ensure the safe disposal and management of CCR. In addition to the requirements of the federal CCR regulation, CCR landfills and surface impoundments will continue to be independently regulated by most states. Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana recorded asset retirement obligation amounts during 2015. Cost recovery for future expenditures will be pursued through the normal ratemaking process with federal and state utility commissions and via wholesale contracts, which permit recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with Duke Energy’s regulated operations. For more information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations." 

Duke Energy Ohio's nonregulated Beckjord station, a facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the recently enacted EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash at the facility, the costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Costs incurred by OVEC related to environmental regulations could also have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014

On September 20, 2014, the Coal Ash Act became law and was amended on June 24, 2015, by the North Carolina Mountain Energy Act. The Coal Ash Act, as amended, established regulations regarding the use and closure of existing ash impoundments, the disposal of ash at active coal plants and the handling of surface and groundwater impacts from ash basins in North Carolina. The Coal Ash Act, as amended, deemed eight ash impoundments at four facilities to be high priority and requires closure no later than August 1, 2019, with a potential extension for closure of the Asheville impoundment until 2022. The Coal Ash Act requires state regulators to provide risk ranking classifications for the remaining 25 ash impoundments at 10 North Carolina facilities. The method and timing of closure of these ash impoundments will be determined by the specific risk classifications, with closure no later than December 31, 2029. 

Other than the high priority sites specifically delineated by the Coal Ash Act, the NCDEQ has issued either preliminary draft risk rankings or has yet to designate specific risk classifications. These risk rankings were generally determined based on three primary criteria: structural integrity of impoundments and impact to both surface and groundwaters. NCDEQ categorized 12 basins at four sites as intermediate risk and four basins at three plants as low risk. NCDEQ also categorized nine basins at six plants as "low-to-intermediate" risk, thereby not assigning a proposed risk ranking at this time. The risk rankings of these sites will be based upon receipt of additional data primarily related to groundwater quality and the completion of specific modifications and repairs to the impoundments. NCDEQ is expected to finalize its risk classifications after a public comment process. Final proposed classifications are subject to Coal Ash Commission adjustments and approval but may become law if the Commission fails to act within 60 days of receiving the final proposed classifications. Estimated asset retirement obligations have been recognized based on the assigned risk categories or, if not assigned, based on a probability weighting of potential closure methods. Actual closure costs incurred could be materially different from current estimates that form the basis of the recorded asset retirement obligations. For further information on asset retirement obligations, refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”

74

PART II

Mercury and Air Toxics Standards

The final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule was issued on February 16, 2012. The rule establishes emission limits for hazardous air pollutants from new and existing coal-fired and oil-fired steam electric generating units. The rule required sources to comply with emission limits by April 16, 2015. Under the Clean Air Act (CAA), permitting authorities have the discretion to grant up to a one-year compliance extension, on a case-by-case basis, to sources that are unable to complete the installation of emission controls before the compliance deadline. The Duke Energy Registrants have requested and received compliance extensions for a number of plants. The rule requirements currently apply where a compliance extension was not received. Strategies to achieve compliance include installation of new air emission control equipment, development of monitoring processes, fuel switching and acceleration of retirement for some coal-fired electric-generation units. For additional information, refer to Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” regarding potential plant retirements.

In April 2014, several petitions for review of the final rule were denied by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Circuit Court). On November 25, 2014, the Supreme Court granted a petition for review based on the issue of whether the EPA unreasonably refused to consider costs in determining whether it is appropriate and necessary to regulate hazardous air pollutants from coal-fired and oil-fired steam electric generating units. In June 2015, the Supreme Court reversed the D.C. Circuit Court's decision and remanded the case to the D.C. Circuit Court for further proceedings, finding that the EPA erred in refusing to consider costs when deciding whether it was appropriate and necessary to regulate emissions of hazardous air pollutants from steam electric generating units. In December 2015, the D.C. Circuit Court granted the EPA's request to keep the rule in effect while the agency completes the rulemaking in response to the Supreme Court's ruling. On December 1, 2015 the EPA proposed a supplemental finding to address the cost issue raised by the Supreme Court in its June 2015 ruling. If finalized as proposed, the finding would result in no changes to the current MATS regulatory requirements. The EPA has committed to complete its rulemaking by April 2016. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the results of these proceedings. 

Clean Water Act 316(b)

The EPA published the final 316(b) cooling water intake structure rule on August 15, 2014, with an effective date of October 14, 2014. The rule applies to 26 of the electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own and operate. The rule allows for several options to demonstrate compliance and provides flexibility to the state environmental permitting agencies to make determinations on controls, if any, that will be required for cooling water intake structures. Any required intake structure modifications and/or retrofits are expected to be installed in the 2019 to 2022 time frame. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. It is unknown at this time when the courts will rule on the petitions.

Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines

On January 4, 2016, the final Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG) rule became effective. The rule establishes new requirements for wastewater streams associated with steam electric power generation and includes more stringent controls for any new coal plants that may be built in the future. Affected facilities must comply between 2018 and 2023, depending on timing of new Clean Water Act permits. Most, if not all, of the steam electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own are likely affected sources. The Duke Energy Registrants are well positioned to meet the requirements of the rule due to current efforts to convert to dry ash handling. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. It is unknown at this time when the courts will rule on the petitions.

Estimated Cost and Impacts of Rulemakings

Duke Energy will incur capital expenditures to comply with the environmental regulations and rules discussed above. The following five-year table provides estimated costs, excluding AFUDC, of new control equipment that may need to be installed on existing power plants primarily to comply with the Coal Ash Act requirements for conversion to dry disposal of bottom ash and fly ash, MATS, Clean Water Act 316(b) and ELGs, through December 31, 2020. The table excludes ash basin closure costs recorded as Asset retirement obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For more information related to asset retirement obligations, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other expenses, in addition to costs for replacement generation for potential coal-fired power plant retirements, as a result of these regulations. Actual compliance costs incurred may be materially different from these estimates due to reasons such as the timing and requirements of EPA regulations and the resolution of legal challenges to the rules. The Duke Energy Registrants intend to seek rate recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with regulated operations to comply with these regulations. 

Cross-State Air Pollution Rule

On August 8, 2011, the final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) was published in the Federal Register. The CSAPR established state-level annual sulfur dioxide (SO2) budgets and annual and seasonal nitrogen oxide (NOx) budgets that were to take effect on January 1, 2012.

75

PART II

On August 21, 2012, the D.C. Circuit Court vacated the CSAPR. The court also directed the EPA to continue administering the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which required additional reductions in SO2 and NOX emissions beginning in 2015. On April 29, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court (Supreme Court) reversed the D.C. Circuit Court’s decision, finding that with CSAPR the EPA reasonably interpreted the good neighbor provision of the CAA. The case was remanded to the D.C. Circuit Court for further proceedings consistent with the Supreme Court’s opinion. On October 23, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court lifted the CSAPR stay, which allowed Phase 1 of the rule to take effect on January 1, 2015, terminating the CAIR. Where the CSAPR requirements are constraining, actions to meet the requirements could include purchasing emission allowances, power purchases, curtailing generation and utilizing low sulfur fuel. The CSAPR will not result in Duke Energy Registrants adding new emission controls.

Additional legal challenges to the CSAPR filed in 2012, not addressed by the D.C. Circuit Court decision to vacate the CSAPR, are still ongoing. Oral arguments were held February 25, 2015. On July 28, 2015, the court issued decisions finding certain Phase 1 and 2 emissions budgets invalid, which impact South Carolina, North Carolina and Florida. The court remanded the CSAPR to the EPA for reconsideration of the budgets in question. On December 3, 2015 the EPA proposed a rule to lower the current CSAPR Phase 2 state ozone season NOX emission budgets for 23 Eastern states, including North Carolina, Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. The EPA also proposed to eliminate the CSAPR Phase 2 ozone season state NOX budgets for Florida and South Carolina. The EPA proposed that these changes to state budgets take effect on May 1, 2017. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.

Carbon Pollution Standards for New, Modified and Reconstructed Power Plants

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published a final rule in the Federal Register establishing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions limits for new, modified and reconstructed power plants. The requirements for new plants do not apply to any facility that Duke Energy currently has in operation, but would apply to any plants that will be constructed going forward. The EPA set an emissions standard for coal units of 1,400 lbs. of CO2 per gross MWh. While this limit is higher than the EPA's proposed standard of 1,100 lbs. per MWh, it would still require the application of partial carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology for a coal unit to be able to meet the limit. Utility-scale CCS is not currently a demonstrated and commercially available technology for coal-fired electric generating units, and therefore the final standard effectively bars the development of new coal-fired generation. The final standard of 1,000 lbs. of CO2 per gross MWh for new natural gas combined-cycle units is the same as the proposed limit. The Duke Energy Registrants do not expect the impacts of the final standards will be material to Duke Energy's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Clean Power Plan

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the CPP rule that regulates CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP establishes CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to fossil fuel-fired generation. Under the CPP, states are required to develop and submit a final compliance plan, or an initial plan with an extension request, to the EPA by September 6, 2016. States that receive an extension must submit a final completed plan to the EPA by September 6, 2018. The EPA intends to review and approve or disapprove state plans within 12 months of receipt. The CPP does not directly impose regulatory requirements on the Duke Energy Registrants. State implementation plans will include the regulatory requirements that will apply to the Duke Energy Registrants. The EPA also published a proposed federal plan for public comment. A federal plan would be applied to states that fail to submit a plan to EPA or where a state plan is not approved by the EPA. Comments on the proposed federal plan were due by January 21, 2016.

Legal challenges to the final CPP have been filed by stakeholders. On January 21, 2016 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia denied motions from petitioners to stay the Clean Power Plan pending court review. The court did grant petitioner requests for expedited briefing in the case. Oral arguments are scheduled in June 2016. The court ordered that final briefs in the case be filed by April 22, 2016. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay in the matter, halting enforcement until legal challenges are resolved.

Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal generation with natural gas and renewables. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, which may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current useful lives. The Duke Energy Registrants are studying the CPP rule and are working with states to identify the best approach for developing state plans that will establish the regulatory requirements applicable to the Duke Energy Registrants. The Duke Energy Registrants could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Due to the uncertainties related to the implementation of the CPP, the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Global Climate Change

The Duke Energy Registrants’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consist primarily of CO2 with most coming from their fleet of coal-fired power plants in the U.S. In 2015, the Duke Energy Registrants’ power plants in the U.S. emitted approximately 108 million tons of CO2. Duke Energy’s international operations emitted approximately 2 million tons of CO2 in 2015. The Duke Energy Registrants’ future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables including new regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand and the Duke Energy Registrants’ decisions regarding generation technologies deployed to meet customer electricity needs.

The Duke Energy Registrants have taken actions that has resulted in reduced CO2 emissions over time. Between 2005 and 2015, the Duke Energy Registrants have collectively lowered the CO2 emissions from their electricity generation in the U.S. by more than 25 percent. These actions will lower the exposure to any future mandatory CO2 emission reduction requirements or carbon tax, whether as a result of federal legislation or the final CPP regulation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory CO2 limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms.

76

PART II

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize certain groups associate severe weather events with climate change, and forecast the possibility these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes of extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place and the inability to predict these with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations impossible. Currently, the Duke Energy Registrants plan and prepare for potential extreme weather events, such as ice storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts.

The Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on their electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on-site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in fuel supply so they can continue to provide customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. The Subsidiary Registrants have programs in place to effectively manage the impact of future droughts on U.S. operations.

Nuclear Matters

Following the events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in Japan, Duke Energy conducted thorough inspections at each of its seven nuclear sites during 2011. The initial inspections did not identify any significant vulnerabilities; however, Duke Energy is reviewing designs to evaluate safety margins to external events. Emergency-response capabilities, written procedures and engineering specifications were reviewed to verify each site’s ability to respond in the unlikely event of a beyond design-basis event. Duke Energy is working within the nuclear industry to improve safety standards and margin using the three layers of safety approach used in the U.S.: protection, mitigation and emergency response. Emergency equipment has been added or is in the process of being added at each station to perform key safety functions in the event that backup power sources are lost and are not expected to be restored within a specified period of time. These improvements are in addition to the numerous layers of safety measures and systems previously in place.

In March 2011, the NRC formed a task force to conduct a comprehensive review of processes and regulations to determine whether the agency should make additional improvements to the nuclear regulatory system. On July 13, 2011, the task force proposed a set of improvements designed to ensure protection, enhance accident mitigation, strengthen emergency preparedness and improve efficiency of NRC programs. The recommendations were further prioritized into three tiers based on the safety enhancement level. On March 12, 2012, the NRC issued three regulatory orders requiring safety enhancements related to mitigation strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at a plant, ensuring reliable hardened containment vents and enhancing spent fuel pool instrumentation.

On August 30, 2012, the NRC issued implementation guidance to enable power plants to achieve compliance with the orders issued in March 2012. Plants were required to submit implementation plans to the NRC by February 28, 2013, and complete implementation of the safety enhancements within two refueling outages or by December 31, 2016, whichever comes first. Each plant is also required to reassess their seismic and flooding hazards using present-day methods and information, conduct inspections to ensure protection against hazards in the current design basis and re-evaluate emergency communications systems and staffing levels.

Duke Energy is committed to compliance with all safety enhancements ordered by the NRC in connection with the March 12, 2012, regulatory orders noted above, the cost of which could be material. Until such time as the NRC-mandated reassessment of flooding and seismic hazards is complete, the exact scope and cost of compliance modifications to Duke Energy’s sites will not be known. With the NRC’s continuing review of the remaining recommendations, Duke Energy cannot predict to what extent the NRC will impose additional licensing and safety-related requirements or the costs of complying with such requirements. Upon receipt of additional guidance from the NRC and a collaborative industry review, Duke Energy will be able to determine an implementation plan and associated costs. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of applicable risk factors.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK