PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

The Company  

TransDigm Inc. was formed in July 1993 in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses from IMO Industries Inc. TransDigm Group Incorporated (formerly known as TD Holding Corporation), or TD Group, was formed in July 2003 at the direction of Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P., or Warburg Pincus, to facilitate the acquisition of TransDigm Inc.  

On March 20, 2006, certain stockholders of TD Group and certain members of our management sold an aggregate of approximately 12.6 million shares of TD Group common stock in an underwritten initial public offering, or the Initial Public Offering, at a price of $21.00 per share. TD Group did not offer any shares of common stock for sale in the Initial Public Offering and TD Group did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. As a result of the Initial Public Offering, TD Group’s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TDG.”  

On May 25, 2007, certain of TD Group’s stockholders, including certain members of our management, sold an aggregate of 11.5 million shares of TD Group’s common stock in an underwritten public offering at a public offering price of $35.25 per share. As a result of this offering, TD Group was no longer a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. TD Group did not sell any shares in the offering and did not receive any proceeds from the offering.  

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electromechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and components, gear pumps, specialized valves, engineered connectors, power conditioning devices, specialized fluorescent lighting and AC/DC electric motors, aircraft audio systems, engineered latches and cockpit security devices, lavatory hardware and components, hold open rods and locking devices, specialized cockpit displays, elastomers, and NiCad batteries/chargers. Each of these product offerings consists of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a particular aircraft platform or customer.  

We estimate that over 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2008 were generated by proprietary products for which we own the design. In addition, for fiscal year 2008, we estimate that we generated approximately 75% of our net sales from products for which we are the sole source provider.  

Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold as original equipment on an aircraft, we generate net sales from recurring aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 30 years. We estimate that approximately 60% of our net sales in fiscal year 2008 were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. These aftermarket revenues have historically produced a higher gross margin and been more stable than sales to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.  

Products  

We primarily design, produce and supply highly-engineered proprietary aerospace components (and certain system/subsystems) with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary “build to print” business because it frequently offers lower margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and customer support.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include: (1) mechanical /electro-mechanical actuators and controls used in numerous actuation applications;(2) ignition systems and components such as igniters, exciters and spark plugs used to start and spark turbine and reciprocating aircraft engines; (3) gear pumps used primarily in lubrication and fuel applications; (4) specialized valves used in fuel, hydraulic and pneumatic applications; (5) engineered connectors used in fuel, pneumatic and hydraulic applications; (6) power conditioning devices used to modify and control electrical power; (7) specialized fluorescent lighting; (8) specialized AC/DC electric motors and components used in various defense and commercial applications; (9) aircraft audio systems; (10) engineered latching and locking devices used in various bin, security and other applications; (11) lavatory hardware and components; (12) rods and locking devices used primarily to hold open cowlings to allow access to engines for maintenance; (13) specialized cockpit displays; (14) elastomers used in various clamping and heating applications; and (15) NiCad batteries/chargers used to provide starting and back-up power.  

Sales and Marketing  

Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket.  

We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a product manager to certain products. Each product manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the products for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, sales, new business and profitability for such products. The product managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers, to achieve total bookings and new business goals at each account, and, together with the product managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are compensated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities.  

Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to provide logistical support as well as primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Our major distributors are Aviall, Inc. (a subsidiary of The Boeing Company) and Satair A/S.  

Manufacturing and Engineering  

We maintain twelve principal manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility comprises manufacturing, distribution and engineering as well as administrative functions, including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including rationalization of operations, developing improved control systems that allow for accurate product profit and loss accounting, investing in equipment, tooling, and information systems and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers.  

We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing uniquely engineered products with high quality and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in Cost of Sales and in Selling and Administrative captions in our Statements of Income. Total engineering expense represents approximately 8% to 9% of our operating units’ costs, or approximately 4% to 5% of our net sales. Our proprietary products are designed by our engineering staff and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft component industry, particularly through our new product initiatives. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers’ tolerance and quality requirements.  

3  

Table of Contents 

We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to attempt to ensure the quality of our products and comply with military specifications and Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, and OEM certification requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures, including testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures, together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities.  

Customers  

Our customers include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. For the year ended September 30, 2008, Boeing (which includes Aviall, Inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales, and Honeywell International, Inc. accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers, including the two largest customers, are used on multiple platforms.  

Active commercial production programs include the Boeing 737, 747, 767 and 777, the Airbus A300, A319/20/21, A330/A340 and A380, the Bombardier CRJ’s and Challenger, the Embraer RJ’s, the Cessna Citation family, the Raytheon Premier and Hawker and most Gulfstream airframes. Military platforms include aircraft such as the Boeing C-17, F-15 and F-18, the Lockheed Martin C-130J and F-16, the Northrop Grumman E2C (Hawkeye), the Joint Strikefighter and the Blackhawk, Chinook and Apache helicopters. TransDigm has been awarded numerous contracts to develop engineered products for production on the Boeing 787 and Airbus A400M programs.  

We believe that we have strong customer relationships with almost all large commercial transport, regional, general aviation and military OEMs. The demand for our aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, airline profitability. We believe that we are also a leading supplier of components used on U.S. designed military aircraft, including components that are used on a variety of fighter aircraft, military freighters and military helicopters.  

Competition  

The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations that have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we do, to small privately-held entities, with only one or two components in their entire product portfolios.  

We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing high quality products which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry’s stringent regulatory, certification and technical requirements, and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products, create barriers to entry for potential new competitors. So long as customers receive products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition, we believe that concerns about safety and flight delays if products are unavailable or undependable make our customers continue long-term supplier relationships.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Government Contracts  

Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and (5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products.  

Most of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.  

As described elsewhere in this report, five of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a U.S. Department of Defense, or the DOD, Office of Inspector General review of our records for the purpose of determining whether the DOD’s various buying offices negotiated “fair and reasonable” prices for spare parts purchased from those five divisions and subsidiaries in fiscal years 2002 through 2004. For additional information regarding the details and status of the pricing review, please refer to “Risk Factors—Certain of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a pricing review by the DOD Office of Inspector General.”  

Governmental Regulation  

The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by both the FAA in the United States and by the Joint Aviation Authorities in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or agencies, and, in some cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models.  

We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components, and we believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA approved repair stations.  

In addition, sales of many of our products that will be used on aircraft owned by non-U.S. entities are subject to compliance with U.S. export control laws.  

Our operations are also subject to a variety of worker and community safety laws. The Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, mandates general requirements for safe workplaces for all employees. In addition, OSHA provides special procedures and measures for the handling of certain hazardous and toxic substances.  

Raw Materials and Patents  

We require the use of various raw materials, including titanium, aluminum, nickel powder, nickel screen, stainless steel, iridium and cadmium, in our manufacturing processes. We also purchase a variety of manufactured component parts from various suppliers. At times, we concentrate our orders among a few suppliers in order to strengthen our supplier relationships. Raw materials and component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices.  

We have various trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, which we believe, in the aggregate but not individually, are important to our business.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Backlog  

As of September 30, 2008, we estimated our sales order backlog at $417.8 million compared to an estimated $365.2 million as of September 30, 2007. This increase in backlog is primarily due to the acquisitions of the business of CEF Industries, Inc., or CEF, and a product line of Unison Industries, LLC (“Unison”) totaling approximately $34.1 million. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2008 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of our receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, our backlog as of September 30, 2008 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  

Foreign Operations  

Although we manufacture substantially all of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Malaysia through our wholly-owned Malaysian subsidiary. We sell our products in the United States, as well as in foreign countries. Substantially all of our foreign sales are transacted in U.S. dollars and, therefore, we have no material exposure to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar as a result of foreign sales. In addition the amount of components or other raw materials or supplies that we purchase from foreign suppliers, including our Malaysian manufacturing subsidiary, are not material, with substantially all such transactions being made in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we have no material exposure to currency fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar arising from these transactions.  

Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $144.3 million, $143.0 million, and $102.7 million for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.  

Environmental Matters  

Our operations and facilities are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing, among other matters, the emission, discharge, generation, management, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, wastes and pollutants, the investigation and remediation of contaminated sites, and permits required in connection with our operations. Although management believes that our operations and facilities are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, management cannot provide assurance that future changes in such laws, or the regulations or requirements thereunder, or in the nature of our operations will not require us to make significant additional expenditures to ensure compliance in the future. Further, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and sanctions, and third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law, or the environmental permits required for our operations.  

Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for disposal or treatment of hazardous materials also may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of those substances at a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. Because we own and/or operate a number of facilities that have a history of industrial or commercial use and because we arrange for the disposal of hazardous materials at many disposal sites, we may and do incur costs for investigation, removal and remediation. Contaminants have been   

6  

Table of Contents 

 detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. We receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. Although we have not incurred any material investigation or cleanup costs to date and investigation and cleanup costs are not expected to be material in the future, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites, or the failure of any other potentially liable party to meet its obligations, could result in significant liability for us.  

Employees  

As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately 2,100 employees. Approximately 5% of our employees were represented by the United Steelworkers Union, approximately 3% were represented by the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America and approximately 4% were represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in April 2011, November 2012 and May 2009, respectively. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory.  

Legal Proceedings  

We are from time to time subject to, and are presently involved in, litigation or other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of business. Based upon information currently known to us, we believe the outcome of such proceedings will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition or results of operations.  

Available Information  

TD Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments, will be made available free of charge on the Company’s website, www.transdigm.com, as soon as reasonably practicable, following the filing of the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

7  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS