Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

We are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. We sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location’s functional currency. Our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $36.4 million and a liability of $28.5 million at September 30, 2009. We enter into these contracts with global financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy.  

We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. We do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to U.S. dollars. In 2009, the relative strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our revenues and results of operations, while in 2008 the relative weakening of the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact. While future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to 2009 levels.  

Certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. For such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $15 million.  

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. The use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in fair value in earnings immediately. The ineffective portion was not significant in 2009 and 2008. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations.  

36   
The following table indicates the U.S. dollar equivalent notional amounts by contractual maturity dates and related weighted average contract exchange rates for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at September 30, 2009 (in millions, except for rates):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

All of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. We designated certain of these contracts related to third-party sales or intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through June 2011 as cash flow hedges under U.S. GAAP. The remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

Interest Rate Risk  

In addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations.  

Our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. We had no outstanding commercial paper borrowings at September 30, 2009; at September 30, 2008, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $100.0 million with remaining maturities of six days at a weighted average interest rate of 2.2 percent. The weighted average interest rate on our commercial paper borrowings was 0.6 percent during 2009 and 2.9 percent during 2008. As these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. Changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. In 2009 and 2008, a 100 percent increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $0.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively. We use a 100 percent hypothetical fluctuation as our actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2008 and 2009.  

We had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $904.7 million at September 30, 2009 and $904.4 million at September 30, 2008. The fair value of this debt was $992.0 million at September 30, 2009 and $883.0 million at September 30, 2008. The potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. We currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners’ equity.  

37   
 Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data