Item 1A.   Risk Factors    

 In the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance, and financial risks. These risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Many of our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We can mitigate these risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent.  

 Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. Our ERM process is a company wide initiative that is designed with the intent of prioritizing risks and giving risks appropriate consideration. We use the integrated risk framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) to assess, manage, and monitor risks.  

 A council of senior executives prioritizes identified risks based on the severity and likelihood of each risk and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to mitigate risks, where possible. Our Board of Directors provides oversight of the ERM process and reviews identified risks deemed most significant. The Audit Committee also reviews major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and seek to control them.  

 Our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach and in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. However, these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.  

We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries.  

 Approximately 49 percent of our revenues in 2009 were outside of the U.S. Future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our non-U.S. sales. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. International transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with U.S. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. In addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. While these factors and their impacts are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  

An inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products.  

 Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. Developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected.  

6   
A global recession, adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in additional decreases in our revenues and profitability.  

 Recent global economic events, including the tightening of credit markets and the failures or material deteriorations of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in a global recession. If these conditions continue or worsen, we could experience additional declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers.  

 Demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global or regional industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. As economic activity slows or credit markets tighten, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products.  

 Our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. If our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced.  

Information technology infrastructure failures could disrupt our business.  

 We depend heavily on our information technology (IT) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, a breach of security or an intentional disruption of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns.  

 We are implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of several years. Significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our U.S. locations and certain locations in Mexico and Europe in 2007 to 2009, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2010 and beyond. As we implement the ERP system, the new system may not perform as expected. This could have an adverse effect on our business.  

There are inherent risks in our growing solutions businesses.  

 Risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. If we are unable to control, manage, and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Our industry is highly competitive.  

 We face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. We compete based on product performance, quality, integrated systems and applications that address our customers’ business challenges, pricing and customer service. The relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. We seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers’ business problems. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion and lower revenues and margins. We expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability.  

7   
A disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues.  

 In the United States and Canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales is through a limited number of distributors. In certain other countries, the majority of our sales is also through a limited number of distributors. While we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues. A disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events.  

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could increase our costs.  

 Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. The uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution.  

 We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. In connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. In some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so.  

Intellectual property infringement claims could harm our business and our customers.  

 Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We regularly provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. Indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. The loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant.  

We rely on vendors to supply raw materials, including commodities, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business.  

 Our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of equipment, components and raw materials, including commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. Our reliance on suppliers of these raw materials involves certain risks, including:  

   •   poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products;    

   •   the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors;    

   •   we may not be able recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and    

   •   a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery.    

 Any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. We also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues.  

8   
Potential liabilities and costs for environmental remediation could reduce our profits.  

 Our operations, both in the United States and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. Our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. We have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant.  

We must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position.  

 We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position.  

Our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives.  

 Our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. Localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. These activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we continue with our initiative to invest in actions to reduce our cost structure. The failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results.  

We face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations.  

Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products.  

Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.  

 Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results.  

Risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us.  

 We have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including:  

   •   difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business’ customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames;    

   •   loss of key employees of the acquired business;    

   •   difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and    

   •   diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.    

 Future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets.  

9   
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.   

Item 2. Properties