ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

 Described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. The following are some of the more important of these risks, uncertainties and other factors. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are currently not known to us or we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition.  

 Adverse changes in general business conditions in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

 Adverse changes in general business conditions in the United States and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

 Economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 Portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. Our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. During economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings.  

 We purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. Factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. Although raw materials and energy supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings in the event we are unable to offset these costs by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. Many of our paint and coatings products utilize titanium dioxide, which is widely used as a white pigment for paint.  

 Although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 We have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. During 2007, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. However, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. Although our broad distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and earnings.  

 Adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales.  

 From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the United States have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products.  

 6   
 Increased competition may reduce our sales and earnings performance.  

 We face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.  

 Our operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations.  

 We have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long term growth strategy. These acquisitions involve challenges and risks. In the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

 Risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in China, India, South America and other foreign markets could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 Net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $965 million in 2007, or 12.1% of our total consolidated net sales. Sales outside of the United States make up an important part of our current business and future strategic plans. Our sales and earnings could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. Our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 Because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. Historically, our reported net sales and net earnings have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the British pound, the Argentine peso, the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso, the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  

 We are required to comply with increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our earnings.  

 Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. We expect environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our earnings.  

 7   
 We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued.  

 We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. We accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. These estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. We continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. Due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings.  

 The nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.  

 In the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. These uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, FAS No. 5 requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred if even the possibility may be remote.  

 Our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. Along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions, actions brought by the State of Rhode Island and the State of Ohio, and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. The plaintiffs are seeking recovery based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. The plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. We are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. We believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. We expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief.  

 During September 2002, a jury trial commenced in the first phase of an action brought by the State of Rhode Island against us and the other defendants. The sole issue before the court in this first phase was whether lead  

 8   
 pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance under Rhode Island law. In October 2002, the court declared a mistrial as the jury, which was split four to two in favor of the defendants, was unable to reach a unanimous decision.  

 The State of Rhode Island retried the case and on February 22, 2006, the jury returned a verdict, finding that (i) the cumulative presence of lead pigment in paints and coatings on buildings in the State of Rhode Island constitutes a public nuisance, (ii) we, along with two other defendants, caused or substantially contributed to the creation of the public nuisance, and (iii) we and two other defendants should be ordered to abate the public nuisance. On February 28, 2006, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the punitive damages claim, finding insufficient evidence to support the State’s request for punitive damages. On February 26, 2007, the Court issued a decision on the post-trial motions and other matters pending before the Court. Specifically, the Court (i) denied the defendant’s post-trial motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial, (ii) decided to enter a judgment of abatement in favor of the State against us and two other defendants, and (iii) decided to appoint a special master for the purpose of assisting the Court in its consideration of a remedial order to implement the judgment of abatement, and if necessary, any monitoring of the implementation of that order. On March 16, 2007, final judgment was entered against us and two other defendants. Also on March 16, 2007, we filed our notice of appeal to the Rhode Island Supreme Court. Oral argument on our and the other two defendants’ appeal to the Rhode Island Supreme Court is scheduled for May 2008. Proceedings relating to a remedial order to implement the judgment of abatement are continuing in the Court during the pending appeal to the Rhode Island Supreme Court.  

 We cannot reasonably determine the impact that the State of Rhode Island decision and determination of liability will have on the number or nature of present or future claims and proceedings against us or estimate the amount or range of ultimate loss that we may incur.  

 Notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties and we ultimately may not prevail. Adverse court rulings, such as the judgment against us and other defendants in the State of Rhode Island action and the Wisconsin State Supreme Court’s July 2005 determination that Wisconsin’s risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. In addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful.  

 Due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. In addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. In accordance with FAS No. 5, we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. Any potential liability that may result from such litigation or such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. In the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. Additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. An estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties.  

 We discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on pages 21 and 22 of our 2007 Annual Report under the caption “Litigation and Other Contingent Liabilities,” and pages 29 through 33 of our 2007 Annual Report under the caption “Litigation” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 through 68 of our 2007 Annual Report.  

 9   
 The costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of Life Shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  

 We own Life Shield Engineered Systems, LLC. Life Shield develops and manufactures blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems. The blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. Depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to Life Shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 29 of our 2007 Annual Report under the caption entitled “Contingent Liabilities” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

 None.   

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES