Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    

 M&T and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, the Company has significant exposure to market risk, including interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, among others. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T’s common stock, in particular.  

 22   
 Interest Rate Risk — The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit-taking since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income, which represents the largest revenue source for the Company, is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. The Company closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. The Company makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Possible actions to mitigate such risk include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes.  

 Liquidity Risk — Liquidity refers to the Company’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The Company obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit, offshore branch deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and others. Should the Company experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of funding become restricted due to disruption in the financial markets, the Company’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could be negatively impacted. The Company attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. The Company estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. To mitigate such risk, the Company maintains available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York that are secured by loans and investment securities. On an ongoing basis, management closely monitors the Company’s liquidity position for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs in the normal course of business.  

 Credit Risk — Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, in general, and, due to the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolio and mortgage-related investment securities portfolio, real estate valuations, in particular. Other factors that can influence the Company’s credit loss experience, in addition to general economic conditions and borrowers’ specific abilities to repay loans, include: (i) the impact of declining real estate values in the Company’s portfolio of loans to residential real estate builders and developers; (ii) the repayment performance associated with the Company’s portfolio of alternative residential mortgage loans and residential and other mortgage loans supporting mortgage-related securities; (iii) the concentration of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio, particularly the large concentration of loans secured by properties in New York State, in general, and in the New York City metropolitan area, in particular; (iv) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City metropolitan area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than the vast majority of other regions of the country; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than many other loan types.  

 Throughout 2008, there had been considerable concerns about the deepening economic downturn in both national and international markets; the level and volatility of energy prices; a weakened housing market; the troubled state of financial and credit markets; Federal Reserve positioning of monetary policy; rising private sector layoffs and unemployment, which caused consumer spending to slow; the underlying impact on businesses’ operations and abilities to repay loans as consumer spending slowed; continued stagnant population growth in the upstate New York and central Pennsylvania regions; and continued slowing of automobile sales. Late in 2008 the U.S economy was identified as having been in recession since the fourth quarter of 2007. However, given that approximately 70% of the Company’s loans are to customers in New York State and Pennsylvania, including a large portion to customers in the  

 23   
 traditionally slower growth or stagnant regions of upstate New York and Central Pennsylvania, the impact of deteriorating national market conditions was not as pronounced on borrowers in these regions as compared with other areas of the country. Home prices in upstate New York and central Pennsylvania increased in 2008, in sharp contrast to steep declines in values in other regions of the country. Therefore, despite the conditions, as previously described, the most severe credit issues experienced by the Company through 2008 were centered around residential real estate, including loans to developers and builders of residential real estate in areas other than New York state and Pennsylvania. In response, throughout 2008 the Company conducted detailed reviews of all loans to residential real estate builders and developers that exceeded $2.5 million. Those credit reviews were updated throughout the year and resulted in adjustments to loan grades and, if appropriate, commencement of intensified collection efforts, including foreclosure. With regard to residential real estate loans, with special emphasis on the portfolio of Alt-A mortgage loans, the Company expanded its collections and loan work-out staff and further refined its loss identification and estimation techniques by reference to loan performance and house price depreciation data in specific areas of the country where collateral that was securing the Company’s residential real estate loans was located.  

 All of these factors can affect the Company’s credit loss experience. To help manage credit risk, the Company maintains a detailed credit policy and utilizes various committees that include members of senior management to approve significant extensions of credit. The Company also maintains a credit review department that regularly reviews the Company’s loan and lease portfolios to ensure compliance with established credit policy. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses that in management’s judgment is adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. In addition, the Company regularly reviews its investment securities for declines in value below amortized cost that might be characterized as “other than temporary.” Any declines in value below amortized cost that are deemed to be “other than temporary” are charged to earnings.  

 Economic Risk — The U.S. economy was in recession during 2008. As a result, several additional risk factors have been identified, as follows:  

    •   The significant downturn in the residential real estate market that began in 2007 had continued in 2008. The impact of that downturn has resulted in declining home prices, higher foreclosures and loan charge-offs, and lower market prices on investment securities backed by residential real estate. These factors could negatively impact M&T’s results of operations.   

    •   Lower demand for Company’s products and services and lower revenues and earnings could result from an economic recession.   

    •   Lower fee income from the Company’s brokerage and trust businesses could result from significant declines in stock market prices.   

    •   Lower earnings could result from other-than temporary impairment charges related to the Company’s investment securities portfolio.   

    •   Higher FDIC insurance costs due to bank failures that have caused the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund to fall below minimum required levels.   

    •   There is no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will improve the condition of the financial markets.    

 Supervision and Regulation — The Company is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in general, including laws related to corporate taxation. Many of those laws and regulations are described in Part I, Item 1 “Business.” Changes in those or other laws and regulations, or the degree of the Company’s compliance with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several regulators, including tax authorities, that oversee the Company, could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations and its financial results.  

 Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined above and other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could  

 24   
 materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T common stock, in particular.  

 In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties.