PART II  

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

INTRODUCTION  

Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company primarily located in the Americas. Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) primarily through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), which includes Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in South America and Central America through International Energy.  

When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its three separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants. The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. However, none of the registrants makes any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants of Duke Energy other than itself.  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Proposed Merger with Progress Energy, Inc. On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) by and among Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation. The consummation of the merger provided for in the Merger Agreement, if completed is expected to result in, among other things, Duke Energy becoming the largest U.S. electric utility in terms of enterprise value, market capitalization, electric customers, generation capacity and total assets with:  

   •    approximately 57,000 MWs of generating capacity from a diversified mix of regional coal, nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable power,  

   •    more than seven million retail customers in Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio and South Carolina, and  

   •    a service territory of approximately 104,000 square miles.  

Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Progress Energy with Progress Energy continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock will automatically be cancelled and converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the Merger Agreement (and except that any shares of Progress Energy common stock that are owned by Progress Energy or Duke Energy, other than in a fiduciary capacity, will be cancelled without any consideration therefor). Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, as applicable, subject to the appropriate adjustment for the reverse stock split. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, approval by the shareholders of both companies as well as expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval to the extent required by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Duke Energy is targeting completion of the merger by the end of 2011, but cannot assure completion by any particular date. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Duke Energy and Progress Energy, and further provides for the payment of fees and expenses upon termination under specified circumstances. Further information concerning the proposed merger will be included in a joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by Duke Energy with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the merger.  

Prior to the merger, Duke Energy and Progress Energy will continue to operate as separate companies. Accordingly, except for specific references to the pending merger, the descriptions of strategy and outlook and the risks and challenges Duke Energy faces, and the discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition set forth below relate solely to Duke Energy. Details regarding the pending merger are discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.”  

2010 Financial Results. Net income attributable to Duke Energy was $1,320 million for the year-ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $1,075 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Diluted earnings per share increased from $0.83 per share for the year ended December 31, 2009 to $1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009, as described further below. Net income for both of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was impacted by goodwill and other impairment charges of $660 million and $413 million, respectively, primarily related to the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. Income from continuing operation was $1,320 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $1,073 million for the same period in 2009. Total reportable segment EBIT (defined below in “Segment Results” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) increased to $3,223 million in 2010 from $2,713 million in 2009.  

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of EBIT results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

2010 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments. In 2010, management was focused on controlling operations and maintenance expenses, maintaining operational excellence, continued modernization of infrastructure, competing effectively in Ohio and investing in renewable energy.  

Controlling Operations and Maintenance Expenses. In order to address the impact of the weakened economy on sales volumes leading into 2010 management was focused on controlling costs with the goal that operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, would be flat compared to 2009, due largely to sustainable reductions achieved during 2009, as well as certain 2010 initiatives such as a voluntary severance program and office consolidation. Record temperatures and related high load demands during the year resulted in increased expenses in order to maintain Duke Energy’s generation fleet and transmission and distribution systems. Due to the impact of these pressures, operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, were slightly higher than 2009.  

Maintaining Operational Excellence. Duke Energy assesses operational excellence using a number of quantitative measures including but not limited to capacity factor, commercial availability, equivalent availability, system average interruption frequency index and system  

33  

PART II  

 average interruption duration index depending on the component of the business being evaluated. During 2010 Duke Energy businesses met or exceeded most quantitative measures of operational excellence. Duke Energy’s nuclear fleet demonstrated a record capacity factor at approximately 95.9%. In addition Commercial Power’s non-regulated coal and gas generation assets delivered record generation volumes.  

Continued Modernization of Infrastructure. Duke Energy’s strategy for meeting customer demand, while building a sustainable business that allows its customers and its shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment, includes significant commitments to renewable energy, customer energy efficiency, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Due to the likelihood of upcoming environmental regulations, including carbon legislation, air pollutant regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and coal regulation, Duke Energy has been focused on modernizing its generation fleet in preparation for a low carbon future. Duke Energy plans to invest approximately $7 billion in four key generation fleet modernization projects with approximately 2,700 MWs of capacity within it U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. During 2010, Duke Energy continued the construction of Cliffside Unit 6 in North Carolina and the Edwardsport IGCC plant in Indiana and both of these projects are approximately 80% at December 31, 2010. Both are scheduled to be placed in service during 2012. Once in service, Duke Energy will begin retiring older, less efficient coal and gas-fired units. Additionally, Duke Energy has continued construction on its 620 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facilities at its existing Buck and Dan River Steam Stations. The Buck facility is approximately 74% complete and is scheduled to be placed in service in 2011. The Dan River facility is in the early stages of construction and is scheduled to be placed in service in 2012. Duke Energy invested $1.8 billion in the above generation fleet modernization projects in 2010 and $4.6 billion since the inception of these projects.  

Competing Effectively in Ohio. While Commercial Power’s operations continue to be impacted by the competitive markets in Ohio, Duke Energy has been successful in preserving margin for its shareholders through Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail). Retail customer switching levels increased to approximately 65% at December 31, 2010 from approximately 40% at December 31, 2009. However, through Duke Energy Retail, Commercial Power acquired approximately 60% of the switched load by offering customers a choice between discounts to the Electric Security Plan (ESP) price or fixed price per kWh arrangements. When factoring in the Duke Energy Retail activity, Commercial Power’s net customer switching was approximately 26% at December 31, 2010 compared to 15% at December 31, 2009, although those customers acquired by Duke Energy Retail were at lower margins than customers served under the ESP. Additionally, Duke Energy Retail has been successful in acquiring new customers outside Commercial Power’s ESP load territory.  

On November 15, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio filed for approval of its next Standard Service Offer (SSO) to replace the existing ESP that expires on December 31, 2011. The filing seeks approval of a Market Rate Offer (MRO) through which generation supply is ultimately procured through a competitive solicitation format.  

Investing in Renewable Energy. During 2010 Commercial Power added 267 net MW of renewable energy generation capacity, including Duke Energy’s first operating solar projects, bringing its total operating renewable energy generation capacity to 1,002 net MW. Commercial Power invested $290 million, net of grants, in its renewable energy construction program in 2010.  

Non-Core Businesses. In December 2010, Duke Energy completed the formation of a joint venture for DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) with investment funds managed by Alinda Capital Partners LLC (Alinda) and the closing of a $150 million senior secured credit for DukeNet. Alinda acquired a 50% interest in DukeNet in exchange for $137 million of cash. The new five-year credit facility will provide DukeNet with capital for continued expansion of its telecommunications network, future acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Duke Energy recorded a pre-tax gain of $139 million related to the disposition of Duke Energy’s 50% interest in DukeNet, as well as the re-measurement to fair value of Duke Energy’s retained non-controlling interest.  

In December 2010, Duke Energy completed the sale of its 30% equity investment in Q-Comm Corporation (Q-Comm) to Windstream Corp. (Windstream). The sale resulted in $165 million in net proceeds, including $83 million of Windstream common shares and a $109 million pre-tax gain.  

Duke Energy Objectives – 2011 and beyond. Duke Energy will focus on obtaining approval of the merger with Progress Energy, continued modernization of infrastructure, executing on rate case filings, cost control efforts and achieving a constructive outcome to the SSO filing in Ohio.  

Obtaining Approval of the Merger with Progress Energy. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, shareholder approval of both companies as well as expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval to the extent required by the FERC, FCC, NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC, PUCO, IURC, KPSC and the NRC. Duke Energy plans to file a registration statement on Form S-4 during the first quarter of 2011 and expects shareholder meetings for both Duke Energy and Progress Energy to be held in the second or third quarter of 2011. Duke Energy will file merger applications with the NCUC, and KPSC during the first quarter of 2011. FERC and NRC filings will be made during the first quarter of 2011. Duke Energy will file for approval of combined operational control of generation facilities with the PSCSC in the third quarter of 2011. Other required filings are expected to be made during the second quarter of 2011. Duke Energy anticipates all necessary approvals will be obtained by the end of 2011, however no assurances can be given as to the timing of the satisfaction of all closing conditions or that all required approvals will be received.  

Planned and Potential Rate Cases. The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G), which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses that currently own a capacity of approximately 27,000 MW of generation. The regulated generation portfolio consists of a mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas and hydroelectric generation, with the substantial majority of all of the sales of electricity coming from coal and nuclear generation facilities. The rate case outcomes reached in the various jurisdictions in 2009 will continue to have a positive impact on USFE&G’s earnings.  

Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2011 and 2012. Duke Energy Indiana plans to file a rate case in 2012. Duke Energy Ohio is evaluating the need for electric distribution and gas rate cases in 2011 or 2012. Duke Energy Kentucky is evaluating the need for an electric rate case in 2011. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Planning for and obtaining favorable outcomes from these regulatory proceedings are a key factor in achieving Duke Energy’s long-term growth assumptions.  

Continued Modernization of Infrastructure. Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of $4.5 billion to $5 billion in 2011. The majority of this amount is expected to be spent on committed projects, including base load power plants to meet long-term growth in customer demand and to modernize the generation fleet, ongoing environmental projects, and nuclear fuel. Approximately $2 billion to $2.3 billion of these expenditures are principally related to Duke Energy’s ongoing generation fleet modernization projects. Duke Energy is committed to adding base load capacity at a reasonable price while modernizing the current generation facilities by replacing older, less efficient plants with cleaner, more efficient plants. Duke Energy will continue to focus on managing costs related to the Edwardsport IGCC and will work for a constructive outcome related to the cost increase proceedings. In addition to its ongoing Edwardsport IGCC plant, Cliffside Unit 6 and Buck and Dan River gas-fired generation projects, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential construction of the William States Lee III nuclear power plant in Cherokee County, South Carolina. As these major generation fleet modernization projects are completed in 2011 and 2012 the level of capital spending related to system growth will begin to decline. This will provide Duke Energy with the ability to direct capital to environmental projects where it estimates that it could spend as much as $5 billion over the next ten years.  

As the majority of Duke Energy’s anticipated future capital expenditures are related to its regulated operations, a risk to Duke Energy is the ability to recover costs related to such expansion in a timely manner. Energy legislation passed in North Carolina and South Carolina in  

34  

PART II  

 2007 provides, among other things, mechanisms for Duke Energy to recover financing costs for new nuclear or coal base load generation during the construction phase. Duke Energy has received approval for nearly $260 million of future federal tax credits related to costs to be incurred for the modernization of Cliffside Unit 6, as well as the IGCC plant in Indiana. In addition, Duke Energy has received general assurances from the NCUC that the North Carolina allocable portion of development costs associated with the William States Lee III nuclear station will be recoverable through a future rate case proceeding as long as the costs are deemed prudent and reasonable. Through several separate orders, the NCUC and PSCSC have deemed Duke Energy’s decision to incur project development and pre-construction costs for the project as reasonable and prudent through December 31, 2009 and up to an aggregate maximum amount of $230 million. On November 15, 2010 and January 7, 2011, Duke Energy filed amended project development applications with the NCUC and PSCSC, respectively. These applications request approval of Duke Energy’s decision to continue to incur project development and pre-construction costs for the project through December 31, 2013 and up to $459 million. Duke Energy does not anticipate beginning construction of the proposed nuclear power plant without adequate assurance of cost recovery from the state legislators or regulators. Duke Energy is seeking joint venture partners for the William States Lee III Nuclear Station by issuing options to purchase an ownership interest in the plant.  

In summary, Duke Energy is coordinating its future capital expenditure requirements with regulatory initiatives in order to ensure adequate and timely cost recovery while continuing to provide low cost energy to its customers.  

Cost Control Efforts. Since the beginning of the economic downturn in 2007, Duke Energy was successful in holding operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, flat through 2009. However, the record temperatures and related high load demands experienced during 2010 resulted in an increase in Duke Energy’s operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, in 2010. Duke Energy expects continued costs pressures in 2011 due to additional maintenance expenses related to new assets, additional planned outages at nuclear stations, employee benefit costs and inflation. As a result of these pressures, Duke Energy expects operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, to increase in 2011. Duke Energy expects the increase to be modest from the beginning of the economic downturn in 2007.  

Ohio SSO filing. The current regulatory environment in Ohio makes it difficult for Duke Energy to reduce risk and earn consistent, reasonable returns on its primarily coal-fired generation portfolio in Ohio. Duke Energy believes its MRO filing best positions its primarily coal-fired generation portfolio in Ohio for the long-term under the current regulatory construct. Duke Energy’s proposed MRO provides the flexibility to deliver competitive and fair rates to customers, provides mechanisms to earn more adequate returns on investments in Ohio, and better balances risks and rewards to encourage future investments in Ohio. On February 23, 2011, the PUCO stated that Duke Energy Ohio did not file an application for a five-year MRO as required under Ohio statute. As a result, the PUCO ordered that the case cannot proceed as filed. Duke Energy Ohio is evaluating its options and plans to file a revised SSO in early second quarter of 2011. In conjunction with the initial MRO filing, Duke Energy plans to file a request to transfer the primarily coal-fired generation portfolio to an affiliate of Duke Energy Ohio in order to provide more flexibility around those assets in the future.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business. Duke Energy’s business model provides diversification between stable regulated businesses like USFE&G, and the traditionally higher-growth businesses like the unregulated portion of Commercial Power’s operations and International Energy. Duke Energy’s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control, and could impair Duke Energy’s ability to meet its goals for 2011 and beyond.  

Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns reduce overall electricity sales and have the potential to lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, thus, consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy’s customer’s ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of USFE&G business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses. The current ESP in Ohio, which expires in December 2011, also helps mitigate a portion of the risk associated with certain portions of Commercial Power’s generation operations by providing mechanisms for recovery of certain costs associated with, among other things, fuel and purchased power for ESP load customers.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses.  

Duke Energy’s 2011 goals can also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. As noted above, Duke Energy plans to file various rate cases during 2011 and 2012. In addition, Duke Energy Indiana file a motion with the IURC proposing an updated procedural schedule to address various pending matters related to the Edwardsport IGCC. The outcome of any one or combination of these proceedings could have a significant impact on Duke Energy’s earnings. New legislation and changes to regulations are ongoing, including anticipated carbon legislation, and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory or political environment or the ultimate effect that any such future changes will have on its business.  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

35  

PART II  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consolidated Operating Revenues  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated operating revenues for 2010 increased $1,541 million compared to 2009. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    A $1,164 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information;  

   •    A $334 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $46 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating revenues for 2009 decreased $476 million compared to 2008. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    A $726 million decrease at USFE&G. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information; and  

   •    A $27 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $288 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Consolidated Operating Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated operating expenses for 2010 increased $1,446 million compared to 2009. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    A $624 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information;  

   •    A $576 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $267 million increase at Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $28 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating expenses for 2009 decreased $247 million compared to 2008. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    A $626 million decrease at USFE&G. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information;  

   •    A $65 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information; and  

36  

PART II  

   •    A $40 million decrease at Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $489 million increase at Commercial Power, which includes $413 million of impairment charges in 2009 primarily related to a goodwill impairment charge associated with the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Consolidated Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net  

Consolidated gains on sales of other assets and other, net was a gain of $153 million, $36 million and $69 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The gains in 2010 are primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet in the fourth quarter of 2010. The gains for 2009 and 2008 relate primarily to sales of emission allowances by USFE&G and Commercial Power.  

Consolidated Operating Income  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated operating income increased $212 million compared to 2009. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated operating income decreased $262 million compared to 2008. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Consolidated Other Income and Expenses, net  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated other income and expenses increased $256 million compared to 2009. This increase was primarily due to the $109 million gain on the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm in the fourth quarter of 2010, a higher equity component of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) of $81 million due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, increased equity earnings of $46 million primarily from International Energy’s investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) and the absence of 2009 losses from its investment in Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki) and a $26 million charge in 2009 associated with certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of the Crescent JV (Crescent).  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated other income and expenses increased $212 million compared to 2008. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in equity earnings of $172 million due mostly to impairment charges recorded by Crescent in 2008, of which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was $238 million, partially offset by decreased equity earnings from International Energy of $55 million primarily related to lower contributions from its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) and losses from its investment in Attiki. Also, the mark-to-market and investment income on investments that support benefit obligations within the captive insurance investment portfolio increased $45 million as a result of gains in 2009 compared to losses in 2008. Additionally, foreign exchange impacts resulted in an increase of $43 million due to favorable foreign exchange rates. Partially offsetting these increases was decreased interest income of $53 million due primarily to lower average cash and short-term investment balances, a $26 million charge in 2009 related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent and an $18 million impairment charge in 2009 to write down the carrying value of International Energy’s investment in Attiki to its fair value.  

Consolidated Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated interest expense increased $89 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC due to increased spending on capital projects and lower interest expense related to income taxes.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated interest expense increased $10 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by lower average interest rates on floating rate debt and commercial paper balances.  

Consolidated Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased $132 million compared to 2009, primarily due to the increase in pre-tax income. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 40% compared to 41% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The effective tax rates for both 2010 and 2009 reflect the effect of goodwill impairments, which are non-deductible for tax purposes.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased $142 million compared to 2008. Although pre-tax income was lower in 2009 compared to 2008, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 41% compared to 33% for the year ended December 31, 2008 due primarily to a $371 million non-deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2009.  

Consolidated Income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax  

Consolidated income from discontinued operations was income of $3 million, $12 million and $16 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The 2008 amount is primarily comprised of Commercial Power’s sale of its 480 MW natural gas-fired peaking generating station located near Brownsville, Tennessee to Tennessee Valley Authority, which resulted in a $15 million after-tax gain.  

Extraordinary Item, net of tax  

The reapplication of regulatory accounting treatment to certain of Commercial Power’s operations on December 17, 2008 resulted in a $67 million after-tax ($103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to total mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward native load economic hedge contracts for fuel, purchased power and emission allowances, which the ESP allows to be recovered through a fuel and purchased power rider.  

Segment Results  

Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations (excluding certain allocated corporate governance costs), after deducting amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as gains and losses on remeasurement of foreign currency denominated balances, are excluded from the segments’ EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment’s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents the results of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.  

37  

PART II  

Duke Energy’s segment EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate EBIT in the same manner. Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.  

EBIT by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Other within Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional noncontrolling interest amounts not allocated to reportable segment and Other EBIT.  

Noncontrolling interest amounts presented below includes only expenses and benefits related to EBIT of Duke Energy’s joint ventures. It does not include the noncontrolling interest component related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.  

Segment EBIT, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas includes the regulated operations of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky and certain regulated operations of Duke Energy Ohio.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Gigawatt-hours (GWh).  

 (b) Duke Energy Ohio (Ohio transmission and distribution only), Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest within this USFE&G segment discussion.  

 (c) Megawatt (MW).  

38  

PART II  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. The below percentages represent billed sales only for the periods presented and are not weather normalized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest. The below percentages represent billed sales only for the periods presented and are not weather normalized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Midwest’s retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest’s sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $374 million increase in net retail pricing and rate riders primarily due to new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina and South Carolina in the first quarter of 2010 resulting from the 2009 rate cases, an Ohio electric distribution rate increase in July 2009, and a Kentucky gas rate increase in January 2010;  

   •    A $308 million increase in sales to retail customers due to favorable weather conditions in 2010 compared to 2009. For the Carolinas and Midwest, weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2010 were favorable compared to 2009. The year 2010 had the most cooling degree days on record in the Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area (dating back to 1961);  

   •    A $282 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by increased demand from electric retail customers resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher fuel rates for electric retail customers in North Carolina, partially offset by lower fuel rates for electric retail customers in the Midwest and South Carolina, and lower natural gas fuel rates in Ohio and Kentucky. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers;  

   •    A $54 million net increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to increases in charges for capacity, increased sales volumes due to weather conditions in 2010 and the addition of new customers served under long-term contracts; and  

   •    A $40 million increase in weather adjusted sales volumes to electric retail customers reflecting increased demand, primarily in the industrial sector, and slight growth in the number of residential and general service electric customers in the USFE&G service territory. The number of electric residential customers in 2010 has increased by approximately 10,000 in the Carolinas and by approximately 7,000 in the Midwest compared to 2009.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $315 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to higher volume of coal and gas used in electric generation resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher coal prices, partially offset by lower natural gas prices to full-service retail customers;  

   •    A $162 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to costs related to the implementation of the save-a-watt program, higher customer service operations costs, higher benefit costs, higher nuclear, power and gas delivery maintenance costs, higher outage costs at fossil generation stations, and the disallowance in 2010 of a portion of previously deferred costs in Ohio related to the 2008 Hurricane Ike wind storm, partially offset by overall lower storm costs, including the establishment of a regulatory asset to defer previously recognized costs related to an ice storm in Indiana in early 2009;  

   •    A $96 million increase in depreciation and amortization due primarily to increases in depreciation as a result of additional capital spending and amortization of regulatory assets; and  

   •    A $44 million disallowance charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “ Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease is attributable primarily to lower net gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase resulted primarily from a higher equity component of AFUDC from additional capital spending for increased construction expenditures related to new generation and higher deferred returns.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the increase resulted primarily from overall net higher retail pricing and rate riders, favorable weather, higher equity component of AFUDC, higher wholesale power revenues, and higher weather adjusted sales volumes. These positive impacts  

39  

PART II  

 were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses, increased depreciation and amortization, and the disallowance charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction.  

Matters Impacting Future U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Results  

Results of USFE&G are impacted by the completion of its major generation fleet modernization projects. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of the significant increase in the estimated cost of the 618 MW integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station.  

Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2011 and 2012. Duke Energy Indiana plans to file a rate case in 2012. Duke Energy Ohio is evaluating the need for electric distribution and gas rate cases in 2011 or 2012. Duke Energy Kentucky is evaluating the need for an electric rate case in 2011. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. USFE&G’s earnings could be adversely impacted if any of these rate cases are denied or delayed by the various state regulatory commissions.  

USFE&G evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. For further information on key assumptions that impact USFE&G’s goodwill impairment assessments, see “Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment Assessments”. As of the August 31 impairment analysis, the fair value of the Ohio Transmission and Distribution (Ohio T&D) reporting unit exceeded its carrying value at Duke Energy, therefore no goodwill impairment charge was recorded. However, the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit, which has a goodwill balance of $700 million as of December 31, 2010, exceeded its carrying value by less than 15%. Management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit has been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2011 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit below its carrying value, management would again perform an interim impairment test of the Ohio T&D goodwill and it is possible that a goodwill impairment charge could be recorded as a result of this test. Potential circumstances that could have a negative effect on the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit include additional declines in load volume forecasts, changes in the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the equity valuations of peer companies, changes in the timing and/or recovery of and on investments in SmartGrid technology, and the success of future rate case filings.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $536 million decrease in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by decreased demand from retail and near-term wholesale customers and lower natural gas fuel rates primarily in Ohio and Kentucky, partially offset by higher fuel rates for electric retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to both retail and wholesale customers;  

   •    A $117 million decrease due to lower weather normalized sales volumes to retail customers largely reflecting the overall declining economic conditions in 2009, which primarily impacted the industrial sector;  

   •    A $63 million decrease in GWh and thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to overall milder weather conditions in 2009 compared to 2008. Weather statistics for heating degree days in 2009 were unfavorable in the Midwest but favorable in the Carolinas compared to 2008. Weather statistics for cooling degree days in 2009 were unfavorable in both the Midwest and Carolinas compared to 2008; and  

   •    A $30 million net decrease in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to decreased sales volumes and lower prices on near-term sales as a result of weak market conditions, partially offset by higher prices and increased sales volumes to customers served under certain long-term contracts.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $31 million net increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily due to increases in recoveries of Duke Energy Indiana’s environmental compliance costs and the IGCC rider, partially offset by the expiration of the one-time increment rider related to merger savings that was included in North Carolina retail rates in 2008.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $541 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to a lower volume of coal used in electric generation, lower prices and volumes for natural gas purchased for resale and used in electric generation and reduced purchased power, partially offset by higher coal prices;  

   •    A $71 million decrease in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to lower scheduled outage and maintenance costs at nuclear and fossil generating stations, lower power and gas delivery maintenance and decreased capacity costs due to the expiration of certain drought mitigation contracts in 2008, partially offset by higher benefits costs; and  

   •    A $36 million decrease in depreciation and amortization due primarily to lower depreciation rates in the Carolinas, partially offset by increases in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $22 million increase in property and other taxes due primarily to normal increases.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase is primarily due to gains on the sale of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission allowances in 2009.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is due primarily to a higher equity component of AFUDC earned from additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, partially offset by a favorable 2008 IURC ruling.   

EBIT. The decrease resulted primarily from lower weather adjusted sales volumes, milder weather, lower wholesale power revenues, higher benefits costs and higher property and other taxes. These negative impacts were partially offset by decreased operation and maintenance costs as a result of lower outage and maintenance costs, lower depreciation rates in the Carolinas and overall net higher rates and rate riders.  

40  

PART II  

Commercial Power  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $294 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes and pricing net of lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions;  

   •    A $54 million increase in PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) capacity revenues due to additional megawatts participating in the auction and higher cleared auction pricing in 2010 compared to 2009;  

   •    A $51 million increase in renewable generation revenues due to additional wind generation facilities placed in service in 2010 and a full year of operations for wind generation facilities placed in service throughout 2009; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $6 million in 2010 compared to losses of $2 million in 2009.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $67 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels net of weather and higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2010.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $259 million increase in impairment charges consisting of $672 million in 2010 compared to $413 million in 2009 related primarily to goodwill and generation assets associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information;  

   •    A $277 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes and less favorable hedge realizations in 2010 as compared to 2009;  

   •    A $32 million increase in depreciation and administrative expenses associated with wind projects placed in service and the continued development of the renewable business in 2010; and  

   •    A $70 million increase in operating expenses resulting from the amortization of certain deferred plant maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs in 2010 compared to 2009 net of lower administrative expenses;  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An $85 million decrease in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $27 million in 2010 compared to losses of $58 million in 2009; and  

   •    A $14 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower generation volumes net of higher purchased power volumes in 2010 as compared to 2009.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009 is attributable to lower gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher impairment charges in 2010 associated with goodwill and generation assets of the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest, higher operating expenses resulting from the amortization of certain deferred plant maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs, and lower retail revenues driven by customer switching. These factors were partially offset by higher retail revenue pricing as a result of the ESP, higher wholesale margins due to increased generation volumes and PJM capacity revenues and mark-to-market gains on non-qualifying fuel and power hedge contracts in 2010 compared to losses in 2009.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Commercial Power’s current strategy is focused on maintaining its competitive position in Ohio, maximizing the returns and cash flows from its current portfolio, as well as growing its non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are sensitive to changes in power supply, power demand, fuel and power prices and weather, as well as dependent upon completion of renewable energy construction projects and tax credits on renewable energy production.  

Continuing low commodity prices have put downward pressure on power prices. The available capacity and lower prices have provided opportunities for customers in Ohio to switch generation suppliers. Competitive power suppliers are able to supply power to current Commercial Power customers in Ohio and Commercial Power experienced an increase in customer switching beginning in the second quarter of 2009 which continued into 2010. As of December 31, 2010, customer switching levels approximated 65% of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load. The overall impacts of customer switching could have a significant impact on Commercial Power’s results.  

Commercial Power operates in Ohio under an ESP that expires on December 31, 2011. On November 15, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio filed for approval of its next Standard Service Offer to replace the existing ESP. The filing seeks approval of an MRO through which  

41  

PART II  

 generation supply is procured through a competitive solicitation format, which could have a significant impact on Commercial Power’s generation fleet. Regardless of the outcome of the proposed MRO filing, as a result of the current Ohio regulatory environment, Commercial Power’s earnings after the expiration of the current ESP could be lower than current earnings as the pricing under any Standard Service Offer arrangement may reflect to some degree 2011 power prices, which are projected to be less than the power prices that existed in 2008 when the current ESP was established.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $98 million increase in retail electric revenues resulting from higher retail pricing principally related to implementation of the ESP in 2009 and the timing of fuel and purchased power rider collections in 2008, net of lower sales volumes driven by the economy and increased customer switching levels;  

   •    A $70 million increase in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $2 million in 2009 compared to losses of $72 million in 2008;  

   •    A $68 million increase in revenues due to higher generation volumes and increased PJM capacity revenues from the Midwest gas-fired assets in 2009 compared to 2008;  

   •    A $48 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes and hedge realization in 2009 compared to 2008 and margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions in 2009; and  

   •    A $25 million increase in wind generation revenues due to commencement of operations of wind facilities in the third quarter of 2008 and additional wind generation facilities placed in service in 2009.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $413 million impairment charge primarily related to goodwill associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest;  

   •    A $55 million increase in fuel expense due to mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $58 million in 2009 compared to losses of $3 million in 2008;  

   •    A $44 million increase in depreciation and administrative expenses associated with wind projects placed in service in the third quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, as well as the continued development of the renewable business in 2009;  

   •    A $36 million increase in operating expenses resulting from depreciation expense on environmental projects placed in service in the second half of 2008 and higher plant maintenance expenses resulting from increased plant outages in 2009 compared to 2008;  

   •    A $29 million increase in retail and wholesale fuel expense due to higher purchased power expenses and higher long-term contract prices and lower realized gains on fuel hedges in 2009 compared to 2008; and  

   •    A $10 million increase in fuel and operating expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to higher generation volumes in 2009 compared to 2008, partially offset by bad debt reserves recorded in 2008 associated with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An $82 million impairment of emission allowances due to the invalidation of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in July 2008.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 is attributable to lower gains on sales of emission allowances.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is attributable to higher equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 primarily as a result of a full year of equity earnings from investments held by Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount). Catamount, which is a leading wind power company, was acquired in September 2008. Partially offsetting this increase was a 2009 impairment charge to the carrying value of an equity method investment.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher impairment charges in 2009 primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, partially offset by a 2008 impairment charge related to emission allowance, increased plant maintenance expenses and fewer gains on sales of emission allowances. These factors were partially offset by higher retail revenue pricing as a result of implementation of the ESP, higher margins from the Midwest gas-fired assets due to increased generation volumes and PJM capacity revenues.  

International Energy  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $105 million increase in Brazil due to favorable exchange rates, higher average contract prices, and favorable hydrology.  

Partially offsetting this increase was:  

   •    A $54 million decrease in Central America due to lower dispatch as a result of unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by higher average prices.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $27 million decrease in Central America due to lower fuel consumption as a result of lower dispatch; and  

42  

PART II  

   •    A $13 million decrease in general and administrative due to lower legal, development, and labor costs.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $9 million increase in Peru due to higher hydrocarbon royalty costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven by a $24 million increase due to the absence of 2009 losses from its investment in Attiki and a $23 million increase in equity earnings from NMC due to higher average prices and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) volumes, partially offset by higher butane costs.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to favorable results in Brazil, the absence of a provision recorded in 2009 related to transmission fees in Brazil, 2009 equity losses associated with Attiki, higher equity earnings from NMC, and lower general and administrative costs, partially offset by lower results in Central America.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $41 million decrease in Peru due to unfavorable average hydrocarbon and spot prices; and  

   •    A $16 million decrease in Central America due to lower average sales prices and lower dispatch in El Salvador, partially offset by favorable hydrology in Guatemala as a result of drier weather.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $29 million increase in Ecuador due to higher dispatch as a result of drier weather.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $81 million decrease in Peru due to lower purchased power costs, thermal generation and hydrocarbon royalty costs; and  

   •    A $55 million decrease in Central America due to lower fuel costs.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $31 million increase in Ecuador due to higher fuel consumption and the reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of collection of an arbitration award in the prior year;  

   •    A $24 million increase in Brazil due to transmission cost adjustments, partially offset by favorable exchange rates; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in general and administrative expenses due to reorganization costs and higher legal costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was driven primarily by a $41 million decrease in equity earnings at NMC as a result of lower pricing for both methanol and MTBE, partially offset by lower butane costs, an $18 million impairment of the investment in Attiki and $14 million of decreased equity earnings at Attiki due to lower margins and the absence of prior year hedge income due to hedge contract terminations.  

EBIT. The decrease in EBIT was primarily due to lower equity earnings at NMC and Attiki, an impairment of the investment in Attiki and unfavorable exchange rates and transmission adjustments in Brazil, partially offset by favorable hydrology in Brazil and Central America and lower operating expenses in Peru.  

Other  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by $172 million of employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, donations of $56 million to the Duke Energy Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions and a litigation reserve.  

Gains on sales of other assets and other, net. The increase is primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet in the fourth quarter of 2010.   

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was due primarily to the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm, and a 2009 charge related to certain guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the decrease was due primarily to employee severance costs, donations to the Duke Energy Foundation and a litigation reserve; partially offset by gains recognized on the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet and the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm.   

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Duke Energy previously held an effective 50% interest in Crescent, which was Duke Energy’s real estate joint venture that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 2009. On June 9, 2010, Crescent restructured and emerged from bankruptcy and Duke Energy  

43  

PART II  

 forfeited its entire 50% ownership interest to Crescent debt holders. This forfeiture caused Duke Energy to recognize its share of the net tax loss in the second quarter of 2010. Although Crescent has reorganized and emerged from bankruptcy with creditors owning all Crescent interest, there remains uncertainty as to the tax treatment associated with the restructuring. Based on this uncertainty, it is possible that Duke Energy could incur a future tax liability related to its inability to fully utilize tax losses associated with its partnership interest in Crescent and the resolution of issues associated with Crescent’s emergence from bankruptcy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Income. The increase was primarily due to favorable results at Duke Energy Trading and Marketing (DETM) and Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison) and lower corporate costs, partially offset by higher deferred compensation expense due to improved market performance.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was due primarily to impairment charges recorded by Crescent in 2008, for which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was $238 million, with no comparable losses in 2009, and favorable returns on investments that support benefit obligations. Partially offsetting these favorable variances was a 2009 charge related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

EBIT. The increase was due primarily to prior year losses at Crescent, favorable results at Bison and DETM and lower corporate costs, partially offset by a 2009 charge related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

Summary of Results (in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income  

The $136 million increase in Duke Energy Carolinas’ net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $333 million net increase in net retail pricing and rate riders primarily due to new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina and South Carolina in the first quarter of 2010 resulting from the 2009 rate cases and riders for the save-a-watt program;  

   •    A $317 million increase in fuel revenues driven primarily by increased GWh sales to retail customers, resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher average fuel rates in North Carolina, partially offset by lower fuel rates in South Carolina. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers;  

   •    A $214 million increase in GWh sales to retail customers due to favorable weather. Weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2010 were favorable compared to 2009. Cooling degree days for 2010 were approximately 33% above normal compared to about normal in 2009 and heating degree days for 2010 were 16% above normal compared to 6.5% above normal in 2009; and  

   •    A $23 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to the addition of long-term contracts, increased sales volumes resulting from extreme weather conditions in 2010, and increased capacity charges.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $347 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather conditions;  

   •    A $297 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to increased employee severance costs associated with the 2010 voluntary severance plan, costs related to the implementation of the save-a-watt program, a 2010  

44  

PART II  

     litigation reserve, higher nuclear non-outage maintenance costs, increased corporate costs, increased employee benefit costs, and higher customer service costs; and  

   •    A $95 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to increased production plant base and amortization of certain regulatory assets.  

Gains on sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease is attributable primarily to lower net gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is primarily due to a higher equity component of AFUDC from additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, higher deferred returns, and interest income recorded in 2010 following the resolution of certain income tax matters related to prior years.  

Interest Expense. The increase is primarily due to increased long-term debt and certain other regulatory liabilities, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects.  

Income Tax Expense. The increase in income tax expense for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher pre-tax income. The effective tax rate was 35.3% for 2010 as compared to an effective tax rate of 34.9% for 2009.  

Matters Impacting Future Results  

Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2011 and 2012. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Duke Energy Carolinas’ earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by either of the state regulatory commissions.  

Duke Energy Ohio  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Loss  

The $15 million increase in Duke Energy Ohio’s net loss was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was due primarily to:  

   •    A $495 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting largely from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels, net of higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2010; and  

   •    A $70 million decrease in regulated fuel revenues driven primarily by lower natural gas costs and reduced sales volumes;  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $294 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes and pricing net of lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions;  

   •    A $72 million increase related to more favorable weather conditions in 2010 compared to 2009;  

   •    A $54 million increase in PJM capacity revenues due to additional MWs participating in the auction and higher cleared auction pricing in 2010 compared to 2009;  

   •    A $36 million increase in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $30 million in 2010 compared to losses of $6 million in 2009;  

   •    A $28 million increase due to implementation of new distribution electric rates in Ohio;  

   •    A $17 million increase in retail gas revenues from Ohio recovery riders for Accelerated Main Replacement (AMRP) costs and uncollectible accounts expense; and  

   •    A $13 million increase due to implementation of new gas rates in Kentucky.  

45  

PART II  

Operating Expenses. The increase was due primarily to:  

   •    A $277 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes and less favorable hedge realizations in 2010 as compared to 2009;  

   •    A $68 million increase in impairment charges consisting of $837 million in 2010 compared to $769 million in 2009 related to goodwill and to generation assets associated with the Midwest non-regulated generation operations. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information;  

   •    A $62 million increase in operating expenses resulting from the amortization of certain deferred plant maintenance expenses, the partial disallowance of previously deferred 2008 Hurricane Ike storm costs, and the 2009 deferral of environmental amounts in Ohio that had been charged to expense in prior periods, net of lower administrative expenses;  

   •    A $24 million increase in employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina; and  

   •    A $17 million increase in depreciation and amortization costs related to increased software and regulatory asset amortization.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $277 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower retail load due to customer switching in 2010 compared to 2009;  

   •    An $84 million decrease in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $26 million in 2010 compared to losses of $58 million in 2009; and  

   •    A $67 million decrease in regulated fuel expense primarily due to lower natural gas costs and reduced sales volumes;  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009 is attributable to lower gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily attributable to interest income recorded for a favorable tax adjustment in the third quarter of 2010, interest income accrued for uncertain income tax positions and a 2009 adjustment to reduce AFUDC related to certain projects placed in service prior to 2009.  

Interest Expense. The decrease was primarily due to a 2009 adjustment to reduce capitalized interest related to certain projects placed in service prior to 2009 and reduced interest expense accrued for uncertain income tax positions, partially offset by an increase in average debt balances in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Income Tax Expense. The decrease in income tax expense for 2010 as compared to 2009 is primarily the result of lower pre-tax earnings (adjusting for non-deductible goodwill). The effective tax rate in 2010 was (43.0%) compared to an effective tax rate of (77.2%) in 2009.  

Matters Impacting Future Results  

As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” in the second quarter of 2010, Duke Energy Ohio recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $216 million related to the Ohio T&D reporting unit to write down the goodwill to its implied fair value. Subsequent to this impairment charge, the carrying value of goodwill associated with the reporting unit is $746 million. This impairment charge was based on a number of factors, including current and forecasted customer demand, discount rates, valuation of peer companies, and regulatory and legislative developments. Should the assumptions used related to these factors change in the future, it is possible that further goodwill impairment charges could be recorded.  

On November 15, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio filed for approval of its next Standard Service Offer to replace the existing ESP. The filing seeks approval of an MRO through which generation supply is procured through a competitive solicitation format. The outcome of this filing could have a significant impact on Duke Energy Ohio’s earnings.  

Continuing low commodity prices in have put downward pressure on power prices. The available capacity and lower prices have provided opportunities for customers in Ohio to switch generation suppliers. Competitive power suppliers are able to supply power to current Duke Energy Ohio customers in Ohio and Duke Energy Ohio experienced an increase in customer switching beginning in the second quarter of 2009 which continued into 2010. As of December 31, 2010, customer switching levels approximated 65% of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load. The overall impacts of customer switching could have a significant impact on Duke Energy Ohio’s results.  

Duke Energy Indiana  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

Summary of Results (in millions) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

46  

PART II  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income  

The $84 million increase in Duke Energy Indiana’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to:  

   •    A $52 million increase in retail revenues primarily related to favorable weather conditions in 2010 as compared to 2009;  

   •    A $44 million increase in retail revenues from recovery riders for certain capital and operating costs;  

   •    A $38 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) primarily related to higher demand offset by lower fuel rates in 2010 as compared to 2009;  

   •    A $29 million increase in wholesale power revenue, net of sharing, primarily due to adjustments made to formula rate contracts and increase in demand from customers served under long term contracts; and  

   •    A $26 million increase in weather normalized sales volumes to retail customers, primarily impacting the industrial sector.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $32 million decrease in rate pricing primarily due to the negative impact on overall average prices of higher sales volumes.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to:  

   •    A $44 million disallowance charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information;  

   •    A $39 million increase in operation and maintenance primarily due to employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, higher generation station outage costs, and higher benefit costs, partially offset by major storm costs in 2009; and  

   •    A $35 million increase in fuel costs primarily due to higher fuel used in generation and purchased power.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $28 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to a write-off of the regulatory assets related to wholesale contracts in 2009 and amortization related to various regulatory assets.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily attributable to increased AFUDC in 2010 for additional capital spending related to Edwardsport IGCC plant construction.  

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense increased primarily due to higher pre-tax income. The effective tax rate in 2010 was 35.5% compared to an effective tax rate of 36.7% in 2009, primarily due to an increase in deductions for AFUDC equity.  

Matters Impacting Future Results  

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of the significant increase in the estimated cost of the 618 MW IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station.  

Duke Energy Indiana plans to file a rate case in 2012. This planned rate case is needed to recover investments in Duke Energy Indiana’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Duke Energy Indiana’s earnings could be adversely impacted if any of this rate case is denied or delayed by the IURC.  

47  

PART II  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to develop as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that it believes are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting  

Certain of Duke Energy’s regulated operations (primarily the majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power) meet the criteria for application of regulatory accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP in the U.S. for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. Total regulatory assets were $3,390 million as of December 31, 2010 and $3,886 million as of December 31, 2009. Total regulatory liabilities were $3,155 million as of December 31, 2010 and $3,108 million as of December 31, 2009. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

In order to apply regulatory accounting treatment and record regulatory assets and liabilities, certain criteria must be met. In determining whether the criteria are met for its operations, management makes significant judgments, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition, it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations’ costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition, direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs. If facts and circumstances change so that a portion of Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet all of the scope criteria when such criteria had not been previously met, regulatory accounting treatment would be reapplied to all or a separable portion of the operations. Such reapplication includes adjusting the balance sheet for amounts that meet the definition of a regulatory asset or regulatory liability.  

The regulatory accounting rules require recognition of a loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction or a recently completed plant will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. Such assessments can require significant judgment by management regarding matters such as the ultimate cost of a plant under construction, regulatory recovery implications, etc. As discussed in Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” during 2010 Duke Energy Indiana recorded a $44 million disallowance charge related to the IGCC plant currently under construction in Edwardsport, Indiana. Management will continue to assess matters as the construction of the plant and the related regulatory proceedings continue, and further charges could be required in 2011 or beyond,  

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants in the Midwestern United States. Commercial Power’s generation operations, excluding renewable energy generation assets, consists of primarily coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio which are dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio Electric Security Plan (ESP) and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. The primarily coal-fired generation assets also sell power into wholesale markets to the extent there is excess generation above the amount needed to fulfill Commercial Power’s obligations under the ESP. The wholesale generation operations do not qualify for regulatory accounting treatment as these operations do not meet the scope criteria. Commercial Power applies regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of its ESP operations as the rate structure for these portions is designed to recover the specific costs of these components of the ESP. Despite other portions of the ESP operations not qualifying for regulatory accounting treatment, all of Commercial Power’s ESP operations’ rates are subject to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to herein as Commercial Power’s regulated operations. Generation is a competitive business in Ohio and retail customers have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of Commercial Power’s regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy monitors the amount of retail customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its ESP operations. As discussed in Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP expires on December 31, 2011. In November 2010, Duke Energy Ohio filed a request to serve its retail customers under a Market Rate Offer (MRO), effective January 1, 2012. Duke Energy will evaluate whether the continued application of regulatory accounting for Commercial Power’s operations is appropriate once the outcome of the MRO filing is known.  

No other operations within Commercial Power, and no operations within the International Energy business segment, qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

The substantial majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment and thus its costs of business and related revenues can result in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities, as described above.  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments  

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Duke Energy had goodwill balances of $3,858 million and $4,350 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, the goodwill balances by segment were $3,483 million at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, $69 million at Commercial Power, and $306 million at International Energy. The majority of Duke Energy’s goodwill relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose assets are primarily included in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Commercial Power also has $69 million of goodwill that resulted from the September 2008 acquisition of Catamount, a leading wind power company located in Rutland, Vermont. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment.  

48  

PART II  

Duke Energy recorded impairments of $500 million and $371 million related to Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit in 2010 and 2009. Duke Energy Ohio recorded impairments of $677 million and $727 million related to Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit in 2010 and 2009. Subsequent to the 2010 impairment charges, there is no recorded amount of goodwill at Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments” for further information regarding the factors impacting the valuation of Commercial Power’s non-regulated generation reporting unit. Duke Energy determined that no other goodwill impairments existed in 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments”, Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Duke Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The analysis of the potential impairment of goodwill requires a two step process. Step one of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of reporting units with their carrying values, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, step two must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of the goodwill impairment loss. If the carrying amount is less than fair value, further testing of goodwill is not performed.  

Step two of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill against the carrying value of the goodwill. Under step two, determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires the valuation of a reporting unit’s identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination on the testing date. The difference between the fair value of the entire reporting unit as determined in step one and the net fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. The goodwill impairment charge, if any, would be the difference between the carrying amount of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill upon the completion of step two.  

For purposes of the step one analyses, determination of the reporting units’ fair values is based on a combination of the income approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on discounted future cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Key assumptions used in the income approach analyses for the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and general and administrative costs, and expectations of returns on equity that will be achieved. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.  

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units to be significantly different in future periods.  

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the WACC for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). Duke Energy considered implied WACC’s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. For example, transmission and distribution reporting units generally would have a lower company specific risk premium as they do not have the higher level of risk associated with owning and operating generation assets nor do they have significant construction risk or risk associated with potential future carbon legislation or pending EPA regulations. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2010 for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 5.75% to 9.0%. For Duke Energy’s international operations, a base discount rate of 8.2% was used, with specific adders used for each separate jurisdiction in which International Energy operates to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions and countries. This resulted in discount rates for the August 31, 2010 goodwill impairment test for the international operations ranging from 9.7% to 13.0%.  

Another significant assumption that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the long-term growth rate of the businesses for purposes of determining a terminal value at the end of the discrete forecast period. A long-term growth rate of three percent was used in the valuations of all of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units, reflecting the median long-term inflation rate and the significant capital investments forecasted for all of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units. A long-term growth rate of two percent was used in the valuation of the Commercial Power non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit given the finite lives of the unregulated generation power plants and current absence of plans to reinvest in the unregulated generation assets.  

These underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

In the second quarter of 2010, goodwill for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s Ohio T&D reporting unit (Ohio T&D) was tested at this interim date. The fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit is impacted by a multitude of factors, including current and forecasted customer demand, discount rates, valuation of peer companies, and regulatory and legislative developments. Management periodically updates the load forecasts to reflect current trends and expectations based on the current environment and future assumptions. The spring and summer 2010 load forecast indicated that load will not return to 2007 weather-normalized levels for several more years. Based on the results of the second quarter 2010 impairment analysis, the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit was $216 million below its book value at Duke Energy Ohio and $40 million higher than its book value at Duke Energy. Accordingly, this goodwill impairment charge was only recorded by Duke Energy Ohio.  

As of December 31, 2010, the Ohio T&D reporting unit had a goodwill balance of approximately $700 million at Duke Energy and $745 million at Duke Energy Ohio. Potential circumstances that could have a negative effect on the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit  

49  

PART II  

 include additional declines in load volume forecasts, changes in the WACC, changes in the timing and/or recovery of and on investments in SmartGrid technology, and the success of future rate case filings.  

As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of Commercial Power’s Renewables Reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 10%. As an overall test of the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of the reporting units, Duke Energy reconciled the combined fair value estimates of its reporting units to its market capitalization as of August 31, 2010. The reconciliation confirmed that the fair values were reasonably representative of market views when applying a reasonable control premium to the market capitalization. Additionally, Duke Energy would perform an interim impairment assessment should any events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Subsequent to August 31, 2010, management did not identify any indicators of potential impairment that required an update to the annual impairment test. The majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment tests.  

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments  

Property, plant and equipment is stated at the lower of historical cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the carrying value of the assets. Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets, and developing the undiscounted and discounted future cash flows (used to estimate fair value in the absence of market-based value) associated with the asset. Additionally, determining fair values requires probability weighting the cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.  

As discussed further in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments”, Commercial Power recorded $160 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to certain generating assets and emission allowances primarily associated with these generation assets in the Midwest to write-down the value of these assets to their estimated fair value. The generation assets that were subject to this impairment charge were those coal fired generating assets that do not have certain environmental emissions control equipment, causing these generation assets to be potentially heavily impacted by the EPA’s proposed rules on emissions of NOx and SO2. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Revenue Recognition  

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Operating revenues include unbilled electric and gas revenues earned when service has been delivered but not billed by the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh) or per Mcf for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh or Mcfs delivered but not billed. Unbilled wholesale energy revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per megawatt-hour (mWh) to the number of estimated mWh delivered but not yet billed. Unbilled wholesale demand revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MW to the MW volume delivered but not yet billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix.  

In accordance with new accounting rules effective on January 1, 2010, Duke Energy began consolidating Cinergy Receivables Company, LLC (Cinergy Receivables). Accordingly, unbilled revenues which had been included in the sale of receivables to Cinergy Receivables prior to the effective date of the new accounting rules, and thus not reflected on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets, are now included in Receivables on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Duke Energy had $751 million and $460 million, respectively, of unbilled revenues within Restricted Receivables of Variable Interest Entities and Receivables on their respective Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies  

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.  

Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the respective Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $853 million and $980 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy Carolinas’ best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2030. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2030. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2030 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of  

50  

PART II  

 resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,005 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $850 million and $984 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

For further information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any.  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The probability of realizing deferred tax assets is based on forecasts of future taxable income and the use of tax planning that could impact the ability to realize deferred tax assets. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, a valuation allowance may be recorded against certain deferred tax assets.  

In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the impacts of various items, including changes to income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

Significant judgment is also required in computing Duke Energy’s quarterly effective tax rate (ETR). ETR calculations are revised each quarter based on the best full year tax assumptions available at that time, including, but not limited to, income levels, deductions and credits. In accordance with interim tax reporting rules, a tax expense or benefit is recorded every quarter to adjust for the difference in tax expense computed based on the actual year-to-date ETR versus the forecasted annual ETR.  

Duke Energy recognizes tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. Duke Energy records the largest amount of the tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine recognition thresholds and the related amount of tax benefits to be recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available. The portion of the tax benefit which is uncertain is disclosed in the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Undistributed foreign earnings associated with International Energy’s operations are considered indefinitely reinvested, thus no U.S. tax is recorded on such earnings. This assertion is based on management’s determination that the cash held in International Energy’s foreign jurisdictions is not needed to fund the operations of its U.S. operations and that International Energy either has invested or has intentions to reinvest such earnings. While management currently intends to indefinitely reinvest all of International Energy’s unremitted earnings, should circumstances change, Duke Energy may need to record additional income tax expense in the period in which such determination changes. The cumulative undistributed earnings as of December 31, 2010 on which Duke Energy has not provided deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes is $1.2 billion. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these undistributed earnings is estimated at between $175 million and $250 million.  

For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit (DB) plans are determined by government regulations. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its DB retirement plans of $400 million in 2010, $800 million in 2009 and zero in 2008. In 2011, Duke Energy anticipates making $200 million of contributions to its DB plans.  

Duke Energy Plans  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $52 million in 2010. In 2011, Duke Energy’s pre-tax qualified pension cost is expected to be $7 million lower than in 2010 resulting primarily from inclusion of special settlement and contract termination benefit costs in 2010 that will not be included in 2011. Duke Energy recognized pre-tax nonqualified pension cost of $12 million and pre-tax other post- 

51  

PART II  

 retirement benefits cost of $28 million, in 2010. In 2011, pre-tax non-qualified pension cost and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits costs are expected to be approximately the same amounts in 2010.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumes that its plan’s assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 8.25% as of December 31, 2010. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation targets were set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I) and the Duke Energy Corporation Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Trust (VEBA II). The investment objective of the VEBAs is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. The VEBAs are passively managed.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 8.25% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes were 2.6% for U.S. equities, 1.45% for Non-U.S. equities, 1.0% for global equities, 2.0% for debt securities, 0.3% for global private equity, 0.3% for hedge funds, 0.3% for real estate and 0.3% for other global securities.  

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 5.00% as of December 31, 2010. Duke Energy determines the appropriate discount based on a yield curve approach. Under the yield curve approach, expected future benefit payments for each plan are discounted by a rate on a third-party bond yield curve corresponding to each duration. The yield curve is based on a bond universe of AA and AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds. A single discount rate is calculated that would yield the same present value as the sum of the discounted cash flows.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2010 pre-tax pension expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25% change in rates were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2010, the medical care trend rates were 8.50%, which grades to 5.00% by 2020. As of December 31, 2010, the prescription drug trend rate was 9.80%, which grades to 5.00% by 2025. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2010 pre-tax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1% point change in the health care trend rate were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”  

52  

PART II  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Known Trends and Uncertainties  

At December 31, 2010, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents of $1.7 billion, of which $700 million is held in foreign jurisdictions and is forecasted to be used to fund the operations of and investments in International Energy. To fund its liquidity and capital requirements during 2011, Duke Energy will rely primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, and its existing cash and cash equivalents. The relatively stable operating cash flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the next several years. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy projects 2011 capital and investment expenditures of $5.0 billion, primarily consisting of:  

   •    $3.9 billion at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

   •    $0.7 billion at Commercial Power  

   •    $0.2 billion at International Energy and  

   •    $0.2 billion at Other  

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Based on this goal, 78% of total projected 2011 capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Total U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas projected 2011 capital and investment expenditures include $1.7 billion for system growth, $1.8 billion for maintenance and upgrades of existing plants and infrastructure to serve load growth and $0.4 billion of nuclear fuel.  

With respect to the 2011 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $5.0 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should the broad economic recovery stall. Of the $5.0 billion budget, $2.4 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the continued construction of Cliffside Unit 6, the Edwardsport IGCC plant and the Buck and Dan River combined cycle gas-fired facilities, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2011 irrespective of broader economic factors. $2.0 billion of projected 2011 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2011 capital expenditures of $0.6 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities that meet return expectations.  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, as well as its focus on increasing its renewable energy portfolio, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction within its regulated operations. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, future cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  

Many of Duke Energy’s current capital expenditure projects, including system modernization and renewable investments, qualify for bonus depreciation. Duke Energy estimates that over time it could generate cumulative cash benefits between $1.5 billion and $3 billion from these provisions. This broad range reflects uncertainty over how bonus depreciation rules will be applied. Duke Energy is waiting for clarification from the US Department of Treasury to determine which projects will qualify for 50% or for 100% bonus depreciation deductions. Even though bonus depreciation related to Duke Energy’s regulated projects reduces rate base, the cash benefits will decrease Duke Energy’s need for financings over time and help to mitigate future customer rate increases.  

Duke Energy anticipates its debt to total capitalization ratio to be 47% in 2011. In 2011, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing additional net debt of $2.2 billion, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2011 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2011 could be influenced by changes in the timing of capital spending.  

Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of $3.14 billion. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to $0.2 billion in credit facilities from smaller regional banks. At December 31, 2010, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of $2.5 billion under these facilities. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving credit facility are accessible should there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2011, such as the issuance of commercial paper. Management expects that cash flows from operations and issuances of debt will be sufficient to cover the 2011 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures and dividend payments.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt covenants during 2011. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view, including a future change in tax law governing U.S. taxation of foreign earnings. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Duke Energy periodically evaluates the impact of repatriation of cash generated and held in foreign countries. Duke Energy’s current intent is to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If Duke Energy were to decide to repatriate foreign generated and held cash, recognition of material U.S. federal income tax liabilities could be required.  

Operating Cash Flows  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $4,511 million in 2010, compared to $3,463 million in 2009, an increase in cash provided of $1,048 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    Excluding the impacts of non-cash impairment charges, net income increased during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009,  

   •    A $400 million decrease in contributions to company sponsored pension plans, and  

   •    Changes in traditional working capital amounts due to timing of cash receipts and cash payments, principally a decrease in coal inventory, partially offset by a net decrease in cash from taxes of $480 million.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,463 million in 2009, compared to $3,328 million in 2008, an increase in cash provided of $135 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    Excluding the impacts of non-cash impairment charges, net income increased during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, and  

   •    Changes in traditional working capital amounts due to timing of cash receipts and cash payments, principally a net increase in cash from taxes of $740 million, partially offset by an increase in coal inventory, partially offset by  

   •    An $800 million increase in contributions to company sponsored pension plans.  

53  

PART II  

Investing Cash Flows  

Net cash used in investing activities was $4,423 million in 2010, $4,492 million in 2009, and $4,611 million in 2008.  

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.  

Capital, Investment and Acquisition Expenditures by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2010 as compared to 2009 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    A $300 million increase in proceeds from asset sales,  

   •    A $120 million decrease in purchases of available-for-sale securities, net of proceeds, due to net proceeds of $95 million in 2010 compared to net purchases of $25 million in 2009, and  

   •    A $40 million increase in net emission allowance activity, reflecting net sales in 2010 compared to net purchases in 2009.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

   •    A $300 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures.  

The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2009 as compared to 2008 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    A $365 million decrease in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, due primarily to 2008 acquisitions.  

This decrease in cash used was partially offset by the following:  

   •    A $125 million decrease in proceeds from available-for-sale securities, net of purchases, due to net purchases of $25 million in 2009 compared to net proceeds of $100 million in 2008,  

   •    A $70 million decrease in net emission allowance activity, reflecting net purchases in 2009 compared to net sales in 2008, and  

   •    A $30 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales.  

Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity  

Duke Energy’s consolidated capital structure as of December 31, 2010, including short-term debt, was 45% debt and 55% common equity. The fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.0 times for 2010, 3.0 times for 2009, and 3.4 times for 2008.  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $40 million in 2010 compared to $1,585 million in 2009, a decrease in cash provided of $1,545 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    A $1,785 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of $1,091 million during 2010 as compared to net issuances of $2,876 million during 2009,  

   •    A $200 million decrease in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the DRIP and other internal plans, and  

   •    A $60 million increase in dividends paid in 2010.  

These decreases in cash provided were partially offset by:  

   •    A $490 million increase due to the repayment of the Duke Energy Ohio credit facility drawdown and outstanding commercial paper in 2009, and  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,585 million in 2009 compared to $1,591 million in 2008, a decrease in cash provided of $6 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    A $475 million decrease due to the repayment of the Duke Energy Ohio credit facility drawdown and outstanding commercial paper, and  

   •    An $80 million increase in dividends paid in 2009.  

These decreases in cash provided were partially offset by:  

   •    A $385 million increase in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the DRIP and other internal plans, and  

   •    A $210 million increase in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of $2,875 million during 2009 as compared to net issuances of $2,665 million during 2008.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2010. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were $302 million in 2010.  

During the year ended December 31, 2010, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.97, which resulted in dividend payments of $1,284 million.  

In December 2010, Top of the World Wind Energy LLC, a subsidiary of Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $193 million principal amount maturing in December 2028. The collateral for this loan is substantially all of the assets of Top of the World Windpower LLC. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of 3.465% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.375% as of December 31, 2010. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

54  

PART II  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $143 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.375 % and mature October 2031. Prior to the conversion, the bonds were held by Duke Energy Carolinas as treasury bonds. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.625% and mature November 1, 2040. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds. In September 2010, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $70 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $70 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, of which $60 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.375% and mature March 1, 2019 and $10 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.75% and mature April 1, 2022. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $70 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $70 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, of which $60 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.375% and mature March 1, 2019 and $10 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.75% and mature April 1, 2022. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In July 2010, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of 3.75% first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $123 million of borrowings under the Master Credit Facility, and will be used to fund Duke Energy Indiana’s ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In July 2010, International Energy issued $281 million principal amount in Brazil, which carries an interest rate of 8.59% plus IGP-M (Brazil’s monthly inflation index) non-convertible debentures due July 2015. Proceeds of the issuance were used to refinance Brazil debt related to DEIGP and for future debt maturities in Brazil.  

In June 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $450 million principal amount of 4.30% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to fund Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2010, Green Frontier Wind Power, LLC, a subsidiary of DEGS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $325 million principal amount maturing in 2025. The collateral for this loan is a group of five wind farms located in Wyoming, Colorado and Pennsylvania. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of approximately 3.4% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.5% as of September 30, 2010. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In March 2010, Duke Energy issued $450 million principal amount of 3.35% senior notes due April 1, 2015. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $274 million of borrowings under the master credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2009. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were $519 million in 2009.  

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.94, which resulted in dividend payments of $1,222 million.  

December 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $250 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 2.10% and mature June 15, 2013. Proceeds from this issuance, together with cash on hand, were used to repay Duke Energy Ohio’s borrowing under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. In conjunction with this debt issuance, Duke Energy Ohio entered into an interest rate swap agreement that converted interest on this debt issuance from the fixed coupon rate to a variable rate. The initial variable rate was set at 0.31%.  

In November 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $750 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.30% and mature February 15, 2040. Proceeds from this issuance will be used to fund capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including the repayment at maturity of $500 million of senior notes and first mortgage bonds in the first half of 2010.  

In October 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $50 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.95% and mature October 1, 2040. The tax-exempt bonds are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

55  

PART II  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana repaid and immediately re-borrowed $279 million and $123 million, respectively, under Duke Energy’s master credit facility.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $77 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.60% and mature February 1, 2017. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Kentucky issued $100 million of senior debentures, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.65% and mature October 1, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay Duke Energy Kentucky’s borrowings under Duke Energy’s master credit facility, to replenish cash used to repay $20 million principal amount of debt due September 15, 2009 and for general corporate purposes.  

In August 2009, Duke Energy issued $1 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.95% and mature September 15, 2014 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.05% and mature September 15, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In June 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $55 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $55 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds due August 1, 2039, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds. The refunded bonds were redeemed July 1, 2009.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.45% and mature April 1, 2019. Proceeds from this issuance were used to repay short-term notes and for general corporate purposes, including funding capital expenditures.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Indiana issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.45% and mature April 1, 2039. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures, to replenish cash used to repay $97 million of senior notes which matured on March 15, 2009, to fund the repayment at maturity of $125 million of first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2009, and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due February 1, 2014. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with $44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039. The remaining $127 million had initial rates of 0.5% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December 2039 and $50 million maturing October 2040.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2008. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were $133 million in 2009.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.90, which resulted in dividend payments of $1,143 million.  

In December 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky refunded $50 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due August 1, 2027, had an initial interest rate of 0.65% which is reset on a weekly basis.  

In November 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 7.00% and mature November 15, 2018 and $400 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.75% and mature November 15, 2013. The net proceeds from issuance were used to repay amounts borrowed under the master credit facility, to repay senior notes due January 1, 2009, to replenish cash used to repay senior notes at their scheduled maturity in October 2008 and for general corporate purposes.  

In October 2008, International Energy issued $153 million of debt in Brazil, of which $112 million mature in September 2013 and carry a variable interest rate equal to the Brazil interbank rate plus 2.15%, and $41 million mature in September 2015 and carry a fixed interest rate of 11.6% plus an annual inflation index. International Energy used these proceeds to pre-pay existing long-term debt balances.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky, borrowed a total of $1 billion under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. For additional information, see “Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants” below.  

In August 2008, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.35% and mature August 15, 2038. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes and to redeem first mortgage bonds maturing in September 2008.  

In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.65% and mature June 15, 2013 and $250 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and mature June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $300 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.10% and mature April 15, 2018 and $600 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.05% and mature April 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of $23 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of Interest Expense over the life of the debt.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas refunded $100 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due November 1, 2040, had an initial interest rate of 2.15% which will be reset on a weekly basis.  

In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $400 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.25% and mature January 15, 2018 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and mature January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of $18 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of Interest Expense over the life of the debt.  

56  

PART II  

Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants. The total capacity under Duke Energy’s master credit facility, which expires in June 2012, is $3.14 billion. The credit facility contains an option allowing borrowing up to the full amount of the facility on the day of initial expiration for up to one year. Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, including Duke Energy Kentucky, and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the borrowers), each have borrowing capacity under the master credit facility up to specified sub limits for each borrower. However, Duke Energy has the unilateral ability to increase or decrease the borrowing sub limits of each borrower, subject to per borrower maximum cap limitations, at any time. The amount available under the master credit facility has been reduced by the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and certain tax-exempt bonds.  

Master Credit Facility Summary as of December 31, 2010 (in millions)(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) This summary excludes certain demand facilities and committed facilities that are insignificant in size or which generally support very specific requirements, which primarily include facilities that backstop various outstanding tax-exempt bonds.  

 (b) Credit facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65% for each borrower.  

 (c) Contains sub limits at December 31, 2010 as follows: $650 million for Duke Energy Ohio and $100 million for Duke Energy Kentucky.  

In April 2010, Duke Energy and Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a new $200 million four-year unsecured revolving credit facility. Duke Energy and Duke Energy Carolinas are Co-Borrowers under this facility, with Duke Energy having a borrowing sub limit of $100 million and Duke Energy Carolinas having no borrowing sub limit. Upon closing of the facility, Duke Energy made an initial borrowing of $75 million for general corporate purposes.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky borrowed a total of $1 billion under Duke Energy’s Master Credit Facility. All outstanding borrowings have been repaid as of December 31, 2010.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. In September 2010, the letter of credit agreement was amended to reduce the size to $327 million and extend the maturity date to September 2012. This credit facility, which is not part of Duke Energy’s master credit facility, may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.  

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2010, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s). Duke Energy’s corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from S&P and Moody’s, respectively, as of February 1, 2011 is A- and Baa2, respectively. The following table summarizes the February 1, 2011 unsecured credit ratings from the rating agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.  

Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

On January 10, 2011, S&P and Moody’s affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries, except for Duke Energy Ohio which the outlook was changed from positive to stable. These rating agency actions were taken in response to the announcement of the proposed merger with Progress. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets” for further details on the proposed merger.  

Credit-Related Clauses. Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at S&P or Moody’s. As of December 31, 2010, Duke Energy had $4 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S&P or Baa3 at  

57  

PART II  

 Moody’s, and $14 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

Other Financing Matters. In September 2010, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 85 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.  

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters”, Duke Energy’s wholly-owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2010, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is $9.8 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated Retained Earnings account. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly-owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp (Spectra Energy), having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of its guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. Except for certain performance obligations related to Crescent, which filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions in a U.S. Bankruptcy court in June 2009 and for which a liability of $26 million was recorded during 2009 due to the probability of performance under certain guarantees, it is not probable as of December 31, 2010 that Duke Energy will have to perform under its remaining existing guarantee obligations. However, management continues to monitor the financial condition of the third parties or non-wholly-owned entities for whom Duke Energy has issued guarantees on behalf of to determine whether performance under these guarantees becomes probable in the future.  

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Duke Energy holds interests in VIEs, both consolidated and unconsolidated. For further information, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities”.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Contractual Obligations  

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented.  

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

58  

PART II  

 (a) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.” Amount includes interest payments over life of debt. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from the interpolation of the forecast interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.  

 (b) See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates explicitly stated in the lease agreements.  

 (c) Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and natural gas transportation contracts.  

 (d) Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal, nuclear fuel and limestone. Also, includes contracts that Duke Energy has designated as hedges, undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2010. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.  

 (e) Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants, maintenance and day to day contract work at certain wind facilities and commitments to buy wind and combustion turbines (CT). Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.  

 (f) Relates to future annual funding obligations to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF) (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”).  

 (g) The table above excludes certain obligations discussed herein related to amounts recorded within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows necessary to settle these obligations. The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded from the table above. However, the vast majority of asset retirement obligations will be settled beyond 2014. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $1,816 million and the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $2,014 million at December 31, 2010. The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans”) and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.  

 (h) Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, have been excluded from the above table.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Risk Management Policies  

Duke Energy and its registrants are exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

Commodity Price Risk  

Duke Energy  

Duke Energy and its registrants are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operations and certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations as these regulated operations are typically allowed to recover certain of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered through rates, changes from year to year have no material impact on operating results of these regulated operations. Additionally, most of Duke Energy’s long-term power sales contracts substantially shift all fuel price risk to the purchaser.  

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination areas. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in Duke Energy’s pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. Duke Energy closely monitors the risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

The majority of derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Undesignated derivatives entered into by  

59  

PART II  

 regulated businesses reflect mark-to-market changes of the derivative instruments fair value as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated derivatives entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.  

Certain derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until after delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy enters into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as a NPNS, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power apply such exception. Income recognition and realization related to normal purchases and normal sales contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2011. Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Duke Energy optimizes the value of its bulk power marketing (BPM) and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change per MWh in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of $20 million in 2011 and would have had a $12 million impact in 2010, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of $2 million in 2011 and would have had an $8 million impact in 2010, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change per Million British Thermal Unit (MMBtu) in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of $17 million in 2011 and would have had a $6 million impact in 2010, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below.  

Sensitivities for derivatives beyond 2011. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2011 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change in the forward price per MWh of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of $20 million in 2011 and would have had a $24 million impact in 2010, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have an insignificant effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income in 2011 and $10 million in 2010, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2010, pre-tax income in 2011 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

Duke Energy Carolinas has limited exposure to market price changes in fuel incurred for its retail customers due to the cost tracking and recovery mechanisms in its retail jurisdictions. Duke Energy Carolinas does have exposure to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, fuel and emissions allowances with its BPM sales. Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy Carolinas employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations using various commodity derivatives, such as forwards and swaps. For further information see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2011. Duke Energy Carolinas is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power prices through its BPM activities. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per MWh in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy Carolinas’ pre-tax income of $1 million in both 2011 and 2010, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location, availability of coal supply, and unique or specific contract terms. The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Duke Energy Ohio  

Duke Energy Ohio has limited exposure to market price changes of fuel and emission allowance costs incurred for its retail customers due to the use of cost tracking and recovery mechanisms in its retail jurisdictions. Duke Energy Ohio does have exposure to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, fuel and emission allowances associated with its generation output not utilized to serve retail operations and it natural gas distribution. Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities, such as gas or coal. Duke Energy Ohio employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations using various commodity derivatives, such as forwards, swaps and options. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for additional information. Other  

60  

PART II  

 derivatives used to manage Duke Energy Ohio’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. Derivatives related to regulated businesses reflect changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivatives related to unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2011. Duke Energy Ohio is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, coal, natural gas and emission allowance prices associated with its excess capacity from generation assets that are dedicated to serve Ohio retail customers and its non-regulated operations. Duke Energy Ohio closely monitors the risks associated with these commodity price changes on its future generation operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations, in addition to optimizing the value of its non-regulated generation portfolio. The portfolio includes generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output, fuel requirements, and emission allowance requirements are based on forward power, fuel and emission allowance markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on this model in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio, where such market transparency exists. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change per MWh in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy Ohio’s pre-tax income of $19 million in 2011 and $10 million in 2010, respectively, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy Ohio’s pre-tax income of $2 million in 2011 and $8 million in 2010, respectively, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change per MMBtu in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy Ohio’s pre-tax income of $17 million in 2011 and $6 million in 2010, respectively, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Sensitivities for derivatives beyond 2011. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2011 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% price change in the forward price per MWh of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy Ohio’s pre-tax income of $20 million in 2011 and $24 million in 2010, respectively, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have an insignificant effect on Duke Energy Ohio’s pre-tax income in 2011 and $10 million in 2010, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Duke Energy Indiana  

Duke Energy Indiana has limited exposure to market price changes of fuel and emission allowance costs incurred for its retail customers due to the use of cost tracking and recovery mechanisms in the state of Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana does have exposure to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, fuel and emission allowances associated with its generation output not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load (i.e., bi-lateral and wholesale power sales). Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities, such as gas, coal or emission allowances. Duke Energy Indiana employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations using various commodity derivatives, such as forwards, swaps and options. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for additional information.  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2011. Duke Energy Indiana is primarily exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, fuel and emission allowances associated with its generation output not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load (through its bi-lateral and wholesale power sales activities), although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Duke Energy Indiana closely monitors the risks associated with these commodity price changes on its future generation operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as forward contracts and swap contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. The portfolio includes generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output, fuel requirements, and emission allowance requirements are based on forward power, fuel and emission allowance markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on this model in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio, where such market transparency exists. Based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana’s forecasted exposure to commodity price risk is not anticipated to have any material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations in 2011. The sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2009 related to forecasted exposure to commodity price risk during 2010 also indicated that commodity price risk would not have any material adverse effect on Duke Energy Indiana’s consolidated results of operations during 2010 and the impacts of changing commodity prices in its consolidated results of operations for 2010 was insignificant.  

Duke Energy Indiana’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Credit Risk  

Duke Energy  

Credit risk represents the loss that Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, Duke Energy seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by  

61  

PART II  

 entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Duke Energy may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of Duke Energy’s counterparties’ obligations. Duke Energy also obtains cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction.  

Duke Energy’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Duke Energy’s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy’s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,005 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $850 million and $984 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly-owned entities and third parties. Where Duke Energy has issued these guarantees, it is possible that Duke Energy could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where Duke Energy has issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, Duke Energy attempts to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by Duke Energy or its subsidiaries.  

Duke Energy is also subject to credit risk of its vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including, but not limited to, outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. Duke Energy’s credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Based on Duke Energy’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

Retail. Credit risk associated with Duke Energy Carolinas’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. Duke Energy Carolinas mitigates this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit or letter of credit until a satisfactory payment history is established, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for the retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of Duke Energy Carolinas and are typically recovered through the retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves.  

Wholesale Sales. To reduce credit exposure related to wholesale sales, Duke Energy Carolinas seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy Carolinas to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy Carolinas attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy Carolinas to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy Carolinas analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis. Duke Energy Carolinas’ principal customers for wholesale sales are marketers, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the Southeastern United States. Duke Energy Carolinas has concentrations of receivables from the electric utilities sector. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy Carolinas’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Based on Duke Energy Carolinas’ policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy Carolinas does not anticipate a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Other. Duke Energy Carolinas has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy Carolinas’ third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,005 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $850 million and $984 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets primarily in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Duke Energy Carolinas is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

Duke Energy Carolinas is also subject to credit risk of its vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including but not limited to outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. Duke Energy Carolinas credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Duke Energy Ohio  

Retail. Credit risk associated with Duke Energy Ohio’s service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. Duke Energy Ohio mitigates this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit or letter of credit until a satisfactory payment history is established, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for the retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of Duke Energy Ohio and are typically recovered through the retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio sells  

62  

PART II  

 certain of its accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables, a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of Cinergy Receivables and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Wholesale Sales. To reduce credit exposure related to wholesale sales, Duke Energy Ohio seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit it to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy Ohio attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable it to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy Ohio analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis. Duke Energy Ohio’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy Ohio may use master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Based on Duke Energy Ohio’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy Ohio does not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Duke Energy Ohio is also subject to credit risk of its vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including but not limited to outsourcing arrangements and commodity purchases. Duke Energy Ohio credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Duke Energy Indiana  

Retail. Credit risk associated with Duke Energy Indiana’s service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. Duke Energy Indiana mitigates this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit or letter of credit until a satisfactory payment history is established, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for the retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of Duke Energy Indiana and are typically recovered through the retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Indiana sells certain of its accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables, a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of Cinergy Receivables and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Wholesale Sales. To reduce credit exposure related to bi-lateral sales, Duke Energy Indiana seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit it to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy Indiana attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable it to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy Indiana analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis. Duke Energy Indiana’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy Indiana may use master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Based on Duke Energy Indiana’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy Indiana does not currently anticipate a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Duke Energy Indiana is also subject to credit risk of its vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including but not limited to outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. Duke Energy Indiana credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. The Duke Energy Registrants manage interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. The Duke Energy registrants also enter into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14, and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities.”  

Duke Energy  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2011 than in 2010, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by $8 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2010 than in 2009, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by $19 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The decrease in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to repayment of the master credit facility borrowings, swapping project financed debt from floating to fixed and increased cash balances. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy’s financial structure.  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2011 than in 2010, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by $2 million Comparatively, based  

63  

PART II  

 on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2010 than in 2009, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by $5 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The decrease in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to a decrease of cash and short-term investments and decrease in floating-rate pollution control bonds. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy Carolinas’ financial structure.  

Duke Energy Ohio  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2011 than in 2010, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by $1 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2010 than in 2009, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by $7 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, including money pool balances, adjusted for interest rate hedges and cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The decrease in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to an increase in cash. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy Ohio’s financial structure.  

Duke Energy Indiana  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2010, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2011 than in 2010, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by $5 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2010 than in 2009, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by $6 million. These sensitivities were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate instruments outstanding, including money pool balances, adjusted for cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. There were no open interest rate hedge positions as of December 31, 2010. The slight decrease in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to an increase in cash. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy Indiana’s financial structure.  

Marketable Securities Price Risk  

Duke Energy  

As described further in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.  

Pension Plan Assets. Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. Duke Energy’s target asset allocation for equity securities is 58% of the value of the plan assets and the holdings are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase its funding of the pension plan in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods. During 2010, Duke Energy contributed $400 million to its qualified pension plan. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

NDTF. As required by the NRC and the NCUC, Duke Energy Carolinas maintains trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”). As of December 31, 2010, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC and the NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments in equity securities are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’ rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not affect Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’ rates.  

In 2005 and again in 2009 and 2010, the NCUC and PSCSC approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for decommissioning. In each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Duke Energy expensed $48 million and contributed cash of $48 million to the NDTF for decommissioning costs. The balance of the NDTF was $2,014 million and $1,765 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

As the NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, new site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate includes Duke Energy Carolina’s 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The other joint owners of Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. Duke Energy filed these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the NCUC and the PSCSC in April 2009. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study was completed and indicates the current annual funding requirement of $48 million is sufficient to cover the estimated decommissioning costs. Both the NCUC and the PSCSC approved the existing $48 million annual funding level for nuclear decommissioning costs.  

Both the NCUC and the PSCSC have allowed Duke Energy to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of Duke Energy’s nuclear stations. Duke Energy believes that the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning.  

64  

PART II  

The following table provides the fair value of investments held in the NDTF at December 31, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

65  

PART II  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans. The Subsidiary Registrants’ proportionate share of Duke Energy’s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rate, the rate of increase in health care costs and contributions made to the plans. In 2010, Duke Energy contributed $400 million to its qualified pension plans, of which $158 million was funded by Duke Energy Carolinas, $45 million was funded by Duke Energy Ohio and $46 million was funded by Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar/inflation rates and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2011, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real. A 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2010 in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of $20 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2011. The Consolidated Balance Sheet would be negatively impacted by $180 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) as of December 31, 2010 as a result of a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates. For comparative purposes, as of December 31, 2009, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies was expected to result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of $20 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and a reduction of $160 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2009.  

Other Issues  

General. Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, as calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.0 times for both 2010 and 2009, and 3.4 times for 2008. Duke Energy Carolinas’ fixed charges coverage ratio, as calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.6 times for 2010, and 3.5 times for both 2009 and 2008. For Duke Energy Ohio, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $317 million and $244 million, respectively, due primarily to non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $677 million and $727 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio’s fixed charges coverage ratio was 4.6 times. Duke Energy Indiana’s fixed charges coverage ratio, as calculated using SEC guidelines was 3.6 times for 2010, 2.9 times for 2009 and 3.8 times for 2008.  

Global Climate Change and Other EPA Regulations Under Development. Although there is still much to learn about the causes and long-term effects of climate change, many, including the Duke Energy Registrants, advocate taking steps now to begin reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with the long-term aim of stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of GHGs.  

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) publishes an inventory of man-made U.S. GHG emissions annually. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a byproduct of all sources of combustion including fossil fuel combustion and motor vehicle operations, currently accounts for about 85% of total U.S. GHG emissions. The Duke Energy Registrants’ GHG emissions consist primarily of CO2 and most come from its fleet of coal-fired power plants in the U.S. In 2010, the Duke Energy Registrants’ U.S. power plants emitted approximately 97.5 million tons of CO2. The CO2 emissions from Duke Energy’s international electric operations are less than 3 million tons annually. The Duke Energy Registrants’ future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables including new regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand, and the Duke Energy Registrants’ decisions regarding generation technologies deployed to meet customer electricity needs.  

On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454—the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES). This legislation included a GHG cap-and-trade program covering approximately 85% of the GHG emissions in the U.S. economy, including emissions from the electric utility sector. On November 5, 2009, the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee passed and sent to the Senate floor S. 1733 – the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009. The Senate’s legislation included an economy-wide cap-and-trade program similar to the one contained in ACES. However, the 111th Congress adjourned on January 3, 2011, without passage of H.R 2454 or any other legislation mandating the control or reduction of GHG emissions. This means that any potential effort by the 112th Congress to pass legislation mandating GHG emission reductions would have to start anew because legislation that is not passed in a previous Congress does not carry over to the next.  

The Duke Energy Registrants believe that it is highly unlikely that legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions will be passed by the 112th Congress which ends at the end of 2012. Beyond 2012 the prospects for enactment of any legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions is highly uncertain. While the Duke Energy Registrants continue to believe that Congress will eventually adopt some form of mandatory GHG emission reduction legislation, management cannot predict if or when such legislation might be enacted, what the requirements of any potential legislation might be, or the potential impact it might have on the Duke Energy Registrants.  

On December 7, 2009, the EPA finalized an Endangerment Finding for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act (CAA). The Endangerment Finding did not impose any regulatory requirements on the electric utility industry, but it was a necessary prerequisite for the EPA to be able to finalize several subsequent GHG rules. A subsequent EPA regulation of GHGs from mobile sources issued in 2010 resulted in GHGs being pollutants subject to regulation under the CAA, thereby subjecting newly constructed and modified stationary sources to CAA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permitting program for increases in GHGs. Without any changes, the CAA requirements would have subjected tens of thousands of additional stationary sources to PSD permitting requirements. To avoid this result, the EPA issued the Tailoring Rule on June 3, 2010. Under the Tailoring Rule, which went into effect on January 2, 2011, new major stationary sources of GHGs and existing major stationary sources of GHGs that undertake a modification that will result in a net GHG emissions increase of at least 75,000 tons per year are subject to GHG permitting requirements under the PSD permitting program. All of the Duke Energy Registrants’ existing coal-fired generating units and several of its natural gas-fired generating units are major sources of GHG emissions. The PSD permitting program requires sources that trigger PSD permitting requirements for GHGs to perform a Best Available Control Technology (BACT) analysis for GHG emissions to determine what, if any, actions must be taken at the source to limit its GHG emissions. In each of the states in which the Duke Energy Registrants operates major stationary sources of GHG emissions, the state is the permitting authority for the PSD program. This means that the states will ultimately determine the BACT requirements that will apply in the event the Duke Energy Registrants trigger PSD permitting requirements for GHG emissions at any of its facilities.  

Greenhouse gas PSD permitting requirements and the application of BACT to limit GHG emissions do not apply to any existing source that does not undertake a modification resulting in a net GHG emissions increase of at least 75,000 tons per year. While the Duke Energy  

66  

PART II  

 Registrants do not anticipate taking actions that would trigger the PSD permitting requirements for GHGs at any of its existing generating facilities or facilities currently under construction, if it were to do so, management does not believe that it would have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ future results of operations.  

Numerous entities have filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals for review of EPA’s Endangerment Finding and Tailoring Rule. Management cannot predict the outcome of the litigation and it could be several years before the legal challenges are ultimately resolved.  

In December 2010, the EPA announced that it had entered into a settlement agreement requiring it to propose by July 26,2011 and finalize by May 26, 2012 a rule to establish GHG emission standards (New Source Performance Standards) for new fossil-fueled electric generating units and existing fossil-fueled electric generating units that undertake a major modification. The EPA also announced that it will issue emission guidelines for states for their use in developing plans for reducing GHG emissions at existing fossil-fueled electric generating units that do not undertake a major modification. The outcome of these pending EPA regulatory actions is uncertain and management cannot determine at this time if they will have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ future results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants do not anticipate any of the states in which it currently operates fossil-fueled electric generating units to take action to mandate reductions in GHG emissions from these facilities.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are taking actions today that will result in reduced GHG emissions over time. These actions will lower the Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to any future mandatory GHG emission reduction requirements, whether a result of federal legislation or EPA regulation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, The Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize that certain groups associate severe weather events with climate change, and forecast the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes of extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place, and the inability to predict these with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations that may result from the physical risks of potential changes in the frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events, whatever the cause or causes might be, impossible. Currently, the Duke Energy Registrants plan and prepare for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. The Duke Energy Registrants’ past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future severe weather events to reduce, but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events. For example, the Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on its electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in its fuel supply so it can continue to provide its customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. The Duke Energy Registrants have a program in place to effectively manage the impact of future droughts on its operations. The Duke Energy Registrants do not currently operate in coastal areas and therefore are not exposed to the effects of potential sea level rise.  

In addition to regulations for GHGs, the EPA is developing several other environmental regulations that, as a group, will affect the electric utility industry. Included in that group are the previously proposed Transport Rule, regulations for coal combustion residuals and pending proposals for Clean Water Act 316(b) and Utility Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) emission standards. As a group, non-GHG environmental regulations under development will require the Duke Energy Registrants to install additional environmental controls and may result in the accelerated retirement of some older coal-fired units. While the final requirements for the Duke Energy Registrants from the EPA’s regulatory actions will not be known until the second half of 2011 and later, for planning purposes, the Duke Energy Registrants currently estimate the costs of new control equipment that may need to be installed could total approximately $5 billion over the next 10 years. The Duke Energy Registrants expect to also incur incremental increases in operation, maintenance, and other expenses in conjunction with the non-GHG proposed and pending EPA regulations. Additionally, the Duke Energy Registrants are evaluating the need to retire approximately 2,400 MW of coal-fired generating capacity if it is not economical to bring these plants into compliance with the EPA regulations and for other reasons. Until the final regulatory requirements are known and can be fully evaluated, the potential compliance costs associated with these EPA regulatory actions are subject to considerable uncertainty. Therefore, the actual compliance costs incurred or MW to be retired may be materially different from these estimates based on the timing and requirements of the final EPA regulations.  

For additional information on other issues related to the Duke Energy Registrants, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

67  

PART II  

New Accounting Standards  

The following new Accounting Standards Updates (ASU) have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy, as of December 31, 2010:  

ASC 605—Revenue Recognition (ASC 605). In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new revenue recognition accounting guidance in response to practice concerns related to the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. This new accounting guidance primarily applies to all contractual arrangements in which a vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities and addresses the unit of accounting for arrangements involving multiple deliverables, as well as how arrangement consideration should be allocated to the separate units of accounting. For the Duke Energy Registrants, the new accounting guidance is effective January 1, 2011 and will be applied prospectively. The Duke Energy Registrants do not expect this new accounting guidance to have a material impact to its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

ASC 350—Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (ASC 350). In December 2010, the FASB amended the accounting guidance related to annual goodwill impairment tests. This revised accounting guidance requires entities which have reporting units with a zero or negative carrying value to assess, considering qualitative factors such as those described in existing accounting guidance, whether is it more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. If an entity concludes that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists for the applicable reporting unit, the entity must perform step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. For Duke Energy, the revised accounting guidance is effective January 1, 2011 and will be applied prospectively. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of this revised accounting guidance on its annual impairment test of goodwill and is unable to estimate at this time the impact of adoption on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. None of Duke Energy’s reporting units had a negative carrying value as of December 31, 2010.  

ASC 805—Business Combinations (ASC 805).In November 2010, the FASB issued new accounting guidance in response to diversity in the interpretation of pro forma information requirements for business combinations. The new accounting guidance requires an entity to present pro forma financial information as if a business combination occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented as well as additional disclosures describing the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments. For Duke Energy, this new accounting guidance is effective January 1, 2011 and will be applied to all business combinations consummated after that date.  

ASC 820—Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (ASC 820). In January 2010, the FASB amended existing fair value measurements and disclosures accounting guidance to clarify certain existing disclosure requirements and to require a number of additional disclosures, including amounts and reasons for significant transfers between the three levels of the fair value hierarchy, and presentation of certain information in the reconciliation of recurring Level 3 measurements on a gross basis. For the Duke Energy Registrants, certain portions of this revised accounting guidance were effective on January 1, 2010, with additional disclosures effective for periods beginning January 1, 2011. The initial adoption of this accounting guidance resulted in additional disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements but did not have an impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The adoption of the remaining portions of this accounting guidance will result in additional disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements but is not expected to have an impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated result of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

ASC 310—Receivables (ASC 310). In July 2010, the FASB issued revised disclosure requirements related to financing receivables to address concerns about the sufficiency, transparency, and robustness of credit risk disclosures for finance receivables and the related allowance for credit losses. This revised accounting guidance requires disclosure information at disaggregated levels and requires roll-forward schedules of the allowance for credit losses and information regarding the credit quality of receivables. For the Duke Energy Registrants, certain portions of these revised disclosure requirements were effective for the year ended December 31, 2010, with additional disclosures effective for periods beginning January 1, 2011. The initial adoption of these revised disclosure requirements did not result in any significant impact to the notes to the consolidated financial statements or on the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The adoption of the remaining portions of this revised accounting guidance may result in additional disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial statements but is not expected to have an impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.