PART II  

Item 1. Business.  

GENERAL  

Proposed Merger with Progress Energy, Inc. On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) between and among Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Progress Energy with Progress Energy continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock will automatically be cancelled and converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the Merger Agreement (and except that any shares of Progress Energy common stock that are owned by Progress Energy or Duke Energy, other than in a fiduciary capacity, will be cancelled without any consideration therefor). Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to, one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, as applicable, subject to appropriate adjustment for the reverse stock split. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, approval by the shareholders of both companies as well as expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval, to the extent required, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Federal Communication Commission (FCC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Duke Energy is targeting completion of the merger by the end of 2011, but cannot assure completion by any particular date. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Duke Energy and Progress Energy, and further provides for the payment of fees and expenses upon termination under specified circumstances. Further information concerning the proposed merger will be included in a joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by Duke Energy with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the merger. On February 22, 2011, the board of directors of Duke Energy approved a reverse share split, at a ratio of 1-for-3 which will be subject to the merger being completed and receipt of the requisite approval of the shareholders of Duke Energy. For additional information on the details of this proposed transaction, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.”  

Overview.  

Duke Energy Corporation. Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company primarily located in the Americas. Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) primarily through its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), which includes Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in South America and Central America primarily through Duke Energy International, LLC. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its three separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.  

Duke Energy Holding Corp. (Duke Energy HC) was incorporated in Delaware on May 3, 2005 as Deer Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy Corporation (Old Duke Energy, for purposes of this discussion regarding the Cinergy merger). In the second quarter of 2006, Duke Energy and Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) consummated a merger which combined the Duke Energy and Cinergy regulated franchises, as well as deregulated generation in the Midwestern United States. On April 3, 2006, in accordance with the merger agreement, Old Duke Energy and Cinergy merged into wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy HC, resulting in Duke Energy HC becoming the parent entity. In connection with the closing of the merger transactions, Duke Energy HC changed its name to Duke Energy Corporation (New Duke Energy or Duke Energy) and Old Duke Energy converted into a limited liability company named Duke Power Company, LLC (subsequently renamed Duke Energy Carolinas effective October 1, 2006). As a result of the merger transaction, each outstanding share of Cinergy common stock was converted into 1.56 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 313 million shares of Duke Energy common stock. Additionally, each share of common stock of Old Duke Energy was converted into one share of Duke Energy common stock. Old Duke Energy is the predecessor of Duke Energy for purposes of U.S. securities regulations governing financial statement filing.  

During the third quarter of 2005, Duke Energy’s Board of Directors authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of substantially all of former Duke Energy North America’s (DENA) remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets. The exit plan was completed in the second quarter of 2006. Certain assets of the former DENA business were transferred to the Commercial Power business segment and certain operations that Duke Energy continues to wind-down are in Other.  

On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses, named Spectra Energy Corp. (Spectra Energy), including its wholly-owned subsidiary Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Energy Capital, formerly Duke Capital LLC). The natural gas businesses spun off primarily consisted of Duke Energy’s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy’s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream, formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC), which was part of the Field Services business segment.  

Duke Energy Business Segments. At December 31, 2010, Duke Energy operated the following business segments, all of which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules: U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G), Commercial Power and International Energy. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

The following is a brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. USFE&G generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North Carolina, western South Carolina, southwestern Ohio, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. USFE&G also transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, the regulated transmission and distribution operations of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the NCUC, the PSCSC, the PUCO, the IURC and the KPSC. The substantial majority of USFE&G’s operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

3  

PART II  

Commercial Power. Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation operations, excluding renewable energy generation assets, consists of primarily coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio which are dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio Electric Security Plan (ESP) and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. These assets comprise 7,550 net megawatts (MW) of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern U.S. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with baseload and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle (CC) and peaking natural gas-fired units. Commercial Power’s operations which are subject to the ESP qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For more information on the ESP, as well as the reapplication of regulatory accounting to certain of its operations, see the “Commercial Power” section below.  

Commercial Power also has a retail sales subsidiary, Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail), which is certified by the PUCO as a Competitive Retail Electric Supplier (CRES) provider in Ohio. Duke Energy Retail serves retail electric customers in southwest, west central and northern Ohio with energy and other energy services at competitive rates. During 2010 and 2009, due to increased levels of customer switching as a result of the competitive markets in Ohio, Duke Energy Retail has focused on acquiring customers that had previously been served by Duke Energy Ohio under the ESP, as well as those previously served by other Ohio franchised utilities.  

Commercial Power owns a 9% interest in Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC). Through its ownership interest in OVEC, Commercial Power has a contractual arrangement through March 2026 to buy power from OVEC’s power plants. All power purchased from OVEC is sold into wholesale markets.  

Through Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. and its affiliates (DEGS), Commercial Power develops, owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities. DEGS currently manages 4,440 MW of power generation at 28 facilities throughout the U.S. In addition, DEGS engages in the development, construction and operation of renewable energy projects. Currently, DEGS has over 5,000 MW of renewable energy projects in the development pipeline with 1,002 net MW of renewable generating capacity in operation as of December 31, 2010. DEGS is also developing transmission and biomass projects.  

International Energy. International Energy principally owns, operates and manages power generation facilities, and engages in sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas outside the U.S. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy International, LLC (DEI) and its affiliates and its activities target power generation in Latin America. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary Aguaytia Energy del Perú S.R.L. Ltda. (Aguaytia) and its equity method investment in National Methanol Company (NMC), which is located in Saudi Arabia, International Energy also engages in the production of natural gas liquids, methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE).  

Other. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the Duke Energy Foundation, Duke Energy’s effective 50% interest in DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) and related telecom businesses. Additionally, Other includes the remaining portion of Duke Energy’s business formerly known as Duke Energy North America that was not exited or transferred to Commercial Power, primarily Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM), which is 60% owned by Duke Energy and 40% owned by Exxon Mobil Corporation and management is currently in the process of winding down.  

Unallocated corporate costs include certain costs not reflected in Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, primarily governance costs, costs to achieve mergers and divestitures and costs associated with certain corporate severance programs. Bison’s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification and reinsurance of various business risks and losses, such as property, business interruption and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke Energy. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the southeast U.S., serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers and other businesses and organizations.  

General. Duke Energy is a Delaware corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy Carolinas is a North Carolina limited liability company. Its principal executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy Ohio is an Ohio corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 139 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. Duke Energy Indiana is an Indiana corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1000 East Main Street, Plainfield, Indiana 46168.  

The telephone number for the Duke Energy Registrants is 704-594-6200. The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.  

The public may read and copy any materials that the Duke Energy Registrants file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including its reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s Web site at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge through Duke Energy’s Web site and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other. (For more information on the operating outlook of Duke Energy and its reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Introduction—Executive Overview and Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business”. For financial information on Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”)  

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS  

Service Area and Customers  

USFE&G generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity and transports and sells natural gas. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, the regulated transmission and distribution operations of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky (Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest). Its service area covers 50,000 square miles with an estimated population of 12 million in central and western North Carolina, western South Carolina, southwestern Ohio, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. USFE&G supplies electric service to 4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers over 152,200 miles of distribution lines and a 20,900 mile transmission system. USFE&G provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky via 7,200 miles of gas mains (gas distribution lines that serve as a common source of supply for more than one service line) and 6,000 miles of service lines. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load serving entities.  

4  

PART II  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area has a diversified commercial and industrial presence. Manufacturing continues to be one of the largest contributors to the economy in the region. Other sectors such as health care, finance, insurance, real estate services, local government and education also constitute key components of the states’ gross domestic product. Chemicals, food products, rubber and plastics, textile and motor vehicle manufacturing industries were among the most significant contributors to the Duke Energy Carolinas’ industrial sales revenue for 2010.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s and Duke Energy Kentucky’s service area both have a diversified commercial and industrial presence. Major components of the economy include manufacturing, aerospace, real estate and rental leasing, wholesale trade, financial and insurance services, retail trade, education, healthcare and professional/business services.  

The primary metals industry, transportation equipment, chemicals, and paper and plastics were the most significant contributors to the area’s manufacturing output and Duke Energy Ohio’s and Duke Energy Kentucky’s industrial sales revenue for 2010. Food and beverage manufacturing, fabricated metals, and electronics also have a strong impact on the area’s economic growth and the region’s industrial sales.  

Industries of major economic significance in Duke Energy Indiana’s service territory include fabricated metals, rubber and plastics, food products, stone, clay and glass, primary metals, and transportation. Other significant industries operating in the area include chemicals and other manufacturing. Key sectors among general service customers include health care, education and retail trade.  

The number of residential and general service customers within the USFE&G’s service territory, as well as sales to these customers, is expected to increase over time. However, growth in the near-term is being hampered by the current economic conditions. Industrial sales increased in 2010 when compared to 2009. The recovery in sales volumes was driven by higher levels of industrial production in response to higher expected demand for manufactured goods. Industrial sales will remain strong as the economy recovers, but with a lower expected growth rates.  

USFE&G’s costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows during those periods. By contrast, fewer sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance during those periods. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months.  

The following maps show the USFE&G’s service territories and operating facilities.  

5  

PART II  

6  

PART II  

Energy Capacity and Resources  

Electric energy for USFE&G’s customers is generated by three nuclear generating stations with a combined owned capacity of 5,173 MW (including Duke Energy’s 19.25% ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station), fifteen coal-fired stations with an overall combined owned capacity of 13,454 MW (including Duke Energy’s 69% ownership in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership in Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station), thirty-one hydroelectric stations (including two pumped-storage facilities) with a combined owned capacity of 3,201 MW, fifteen combustion turbine (CT) stations burning natural gas, oil or other fuels with an overall combined owned capacity of 5,028 MW, and one CC station burning natural gas with an owned capacity of 285 MW. In addition, USFE&G operates a solar Distributed Generation program with 9 MW of capacity. Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause USFE&G to purchase power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability during the summer, growth, and price. USFE&G has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy, and reliability of power supply.  

USFE&G’s generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve native-load customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. The vast majority of customer energy needs are met by large, low-energy-production-cost nuclear and coal-fired generating units that operate almost continuously (or at baseload levels). In 2010, 97.8 % of the total generated energy came from USFE&G’s low-cost, efficient nuclear and coal units (61.5% coal and 36.3% nuclear). The remaining energy needs were supplied by hydroelectric, CT and CC generation, renewable energy facilities, or economic purchases from the wholesale market.  

7  

PART II  

Hydroelectric (both conventional and pumped storage) in the Carolinas and gas/oil CT and CC stations in both the Carolinas and Midwest operate primarily during the peak-hour load periods when customer loads are rapidly changing. CT’s and CC’s produce energy at higher production costs than either nuclear or coal, but are less expensive to build and maintain, and can be rapidly started or stopped as needed to meet changing customer loads. Hydroelectric units produce low-cost energy, but their operations are limited by the availability of water flow.  

USFE&G’s pumped-storage hydroelectric facilities offer the added flexibility of using low-cost off-peak energy to pump water that will be stored for later generation use during times of higher-cost on-peak periods. These facilities allow USFE&G to maximize the value spreads between different high- and low-cost generation periods.  

USFE&G is engaged in planning efforts to meet projected load growth in its service territories. Long-term projections indicate a need for capacity additions, which may include new nuclear, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), coal facilities, gas-fired generation units or renewable energy facilities. Because of the long lead times required to develop such assets, USFE&G is taking steps now to ensure those options are available. Significant current or potential future capital projects are discussed below.  

South Carolina passed energy legislation, (S 431), which became effective May 3, 2007. This legislation includes provisions to provide assurance of cost recovery related to a utility’s incurrence of project development costs associated with nuclear baseload generation, cost recovery assurance for construction costs associated with nuclear or coal baseload generation, and the ability to recover financing costs for new nuclear baseload generation in rates during construction through a rider. The North Carolina General Assembly also passed comprehensive energy legislation, (SB 3), which was signed into law by the Governor on August 20, 2007. Like the South Carolina legislation, the North Carolina legislation provides cost recovery assurance, subject to prudency review, for nuclear project development costs as well as baseload generation construction costs. A utility may include financing costs related to construction work in progress for baseload plants in a rate case.  

William States Lee III Nuclear Station. In December 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NRC, which has been docketed for review, for a combined Construction and Operating License (COL) for two Westinghouse AP1000 (advanced passive) reactors for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station at a site in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Each reactor is capable of producing 1,117 MW. Submitting the COL application does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build nuclear units. Duke Energy Carolinas had previously received approval to incur project development costs associated with William States Lee III Nuclear Station from both the NCUC and the PSCSC. Through several separate orders, the NCUC and PSCSC have deemed Duke Energy’s decision to incur project development and pre-construction costs for the project as reasonable and prudent through December 31, 2009 and up to an aggregate maximum amount of $230 million. On November 15, 2010 and January 7, 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas filed amended project development applications with the NCUC and PSCSC, respectively. These applications request approval of Duke Energy Carolinas’ decision to continue to incur project development and pre-construction costs for the project through December 31, 2013 and up to $459 million.  

The NRC review of the COL application continues and the estimated receipt of the COL is in mid 2013. Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the Department of Energy (DOE) for a federal loan guarantee, which has the potential to significantly lower financing costs associated with the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station; however, it was not among the four projects selected by the DOE for the final phase of due diligence for the federal loan guarantee program. The project could be selected in the future if the program funding is expanded or if any of the current finalists drop out of the program.  

Duke Energy Carolinas is seeking partners for the William States Lee III Nuclear Station by issuing options to purchase an ownership interest in the plant.  

Cliffside Unit 6. In June 2006, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to construct two 800 MW state of the art coal generation units at its existing Cliffside Steam Station in North Carolina. On March 21, 2007, the NCUC issued an order allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to build one 800 MW unit. Following final equipment selection and the completion of detailed engineering, Cliffside Unit 6 is expected to have a net output of 825 MW. On February 27, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an updated cost estimate of $1.8 billion (excluding up to $0.6 billion of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC)) for the approved new Cliffside Unit 6. In March 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an updated cost estimate with the NCUC where it reduced the estimated AFUDC financing costs from $600 million to $400 million as a result of the December 2009 rate case settlement with the NCUC that allowed the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base prospectively. Duke Energy Carolinas believes that the overall cost of Cliffside Unit 6 will be reduced by $125 million in federal advanced clean coal tax credits. The Cliffside Unit 6 project is 80% complete as of December 31, 2010 and is currently anticipated to be completed and in-service in 2012.  

Dan River and Buck Combined Cycle Facilities. In June 2008, the NCUC issued its order approving the CPCN applications to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural gas fired generating facility at each of Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Dan River Steam Station and Buck Steam Station. The Division of Air Quality (DAQ) issued final air permits authorizing construction of the Buck and Dan River combined cycle natural gas-fired generating units in October 2008 and August 2009, respectively.  

On November 5, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas notified the NCUC that since the issuance of the CPCN order, recent economic factors have caused increased uncertainty with regard to forecasted load and near-term capital expenditures, resulting in a modification of the construction schedule. On September 1, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the NCUC further information clarifying the construction schedule for the two projects. Under the revised schedule, the Buck project is expected to begin operation in combined cycle mode by the end of 2011, but without a phased-in simple cycle commercial operation. The Dan River project is expected to begin operation in combined cycle mode by the end of 2012, also without a phased-in simple cycle commercial operation. On December 21, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a First Amended and Restated engineering, construction and commissioning services agreement with Shaw North Carolina, Inc. for $322 million for the Buck project which reflects the revised schedule. On December 1, 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a First Amended and Restated engineering, construction and commissioning services agreement with Shaw North Carolina, Inc. for $307 million for the Dan River project which reflects the revised schedule. Based on the most updated cost estimates, total costs (including AFUDC) for the Buck and Dan River projects are $700 million and $710 million, respectively. The Buck project is approximately 74% and is scheduled to be placed in service in 2011. The Dan River project is in the early stages of construction and is scheduled to be placed in service in 2012.  

Edwardsport IGCC. In September 2006, Duke Energy Indiana and Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company d/b/a Vectren Energy Delivery of Indiana (Vectren) filed a joint petition with the IURC seeking a CPCN for the construction of a 618 MW IGCC power plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station in Knox County, Indiana. The facility was initially estimated to cost $2 billion (including $120 million of AFUDC). In August 2007, Vectren formally withdrew its participation in the IGCC plant and a hearing was conducted on the CPCN petition based on Duke Energy Indiana owning 100% of the project. On November 20, 2007, the IURC issued an order granting Duke Energy Indiana a CPCN for the proposed IGCC project, approved the cost estimate of $1.985 billion and approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project. On January 25, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana received the final air permit from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.  

On May 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its first semi-annual IGCC Rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC as required under the CPCN order issued by the IURC. In its filing, Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of a new cost estimate for the IGCC Project of $2.35 billion (including $125 million of AFUDC) and for approval of plans to study carbon capture as required by the IURC’s CPCN order. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana’s request, including the new cost estimate of $2.35 billion, and cost recovery  

8  

PART II  

 associated with a study on carbon capture. Duke Energy Indiana was required to file its plans for studying carbon storage related to the project within 60 days of the order. On November 3, 2008 and May 1, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed its second and third semi-annual IGCC riders, respectively, both of which were approved by the IURC in full.  

On November 24, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition for its fourth semi-annual IGCC rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC. As Duke Energy Indiana has experienced design modifications and scope growth above what was anticipated from the preliminary engineering design, capital costs to the IGCC project increased. Duke Energy Indiana forecasted that the additional capital cost items would use the remaining contingency and escalation amounts in the current $2.35 billion cost estimate and add $150 million, or approximately 6.4% to the total IGCC Project cost estimate, excluding the impact associated with the need to add more contingency. Duke Energy Indiana did not request approval of an increased cost estimate in the fourth semi-annual update proceeding; rather, Duke Energy Indiana requested, and the IURC approved, a subdocket proceeding in which Duke Energy Indiana would present additional evidence regarding an updated estimated cost for the IGCC project and in which a more comprehensive review of the IGCC project could occur. An interim order was received on July 28, 2010 and approves implementation of an updated IGCC rider to recover costs incurred through September 30, 2009. The approvals are on an interim basis pending the outcome of the sub docket proceeding involving the revised cost estimate as discussed further below.  

Duke Energy Indiana filed a new cost estimate for the IGCC project reflecting an estimated cost increase of $530 million on April 16, 2010, with its case-in-chief testimony in the subdocket proceeding. Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of the new cost estimate of $2.88 billion, including AFUDC, and for continuation of the existing cost recovery treatment. A major driver of the cost increase includes design changes reflected in the final engineering leading to increased scope and complexity. On September 17, 2010 an agreement was reached with the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor (OUCC), Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel – Indiana to increase the authorized cost estimate of $2.35 billion to $2.76 billion, and to cap the project’s costs that could be passed on to customers at $2.975 billion. Any construction cost amounts above $2.76 billion will be subject to a prudence review similar to most other rate base investments in Duke Energy Indiana’s next general rate increase request before the IURC. Duke Energy Indiana agreed to accept a 150 basis point reduction in the equity return for any project construction costs greater than $2.35 billion. Additionally, Duke Energy Indiana agreed not to file for a general rate case increase before March 2012. Duke Energy Indiana also agreed to reduce depreciation rates earlier than would otherwise be required and to forego a deferred tax incentive related to the IGCC project. As a result of the settlement, Duke Energy Indiana recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $44 million in the third quarter of 2010 to reflect the impact of the reduction in the return on equity. On December 9, 2010, the parties to the settlement withdrew the settlement agreement to provide an opportunity for the parties to the settlement to assess whether and to what extent the settlement agreement remained a reasonable allocation of risks and rewards and whether modifications to the settlement agreement were appropriate. The IURC granted the motion and scheduled a new evidentiary hearing to begin March 17, 2011. Management determined that the $44 million charge discussed above was not impacted by the withdrawal of the settlement agreement.  

Additionally, the Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc. (CAC), Sierra Club, Inc., Save the Valley, Inc., and Valley Watch, Inc. filed motions for two subdocket proceedings alleging improper circumstances, undue influence, fraud, concealment and gross mismanagement, and a request for field hearing in this proceeding. Duke Energy Indiana opposed the requests. The IURC has not yet ruled on the request to open additional subdockets. The IURC has set two field hearings for February 28, 2011 and March 2, 2011, which will provide an opportunity for the public to comment on the proceeding. The final cost for the project could be greater than the current estimate of $2.88 billion based on current run rates involving labor productivity at the site and higher AFUDC resulting from delays in the effective date of CWIP rider updates. Pending a full review of these factors and Duke Energy’s ability to mitigate the upward cost pressures, Duke Energy has not revised the $2.88 billion cost estimate. Duke Energy is unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings. In the event the IURC disallows a portion of the plant costs, additional charges to expense could occur.  

During 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed petitions for its fifth and sixth semi-annual IGCC riders. In February 2011, Duke Energy Indiana filed a motion with the IURC proposing an updated procedural schedule to address the issues described above. The proposed schedule would allow for evidentiary hearings to take place in June 2011.  

The Edwardsport IGCC facility is 80% complete as of December 31, 2010 and is expected to be completed and placed in service in 2012.  

Duke Energy Indiana Carbon Sequestration. Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition with the IURC requesting approval of its plans for studying carbon storage, sequestration and/or enhanced oil recovery for the carbon dioxide (CO2) from the Edwardsport IGCC facility on March 6, 2009. On July 7, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed its case-in-chief testimony requesting approval for cost recovery of a $121 million site assessment and characterization plan for CO2 sequestration options including deep saline sequestration, depleted oil and gas sequestration and enhanced oil recovery for the CO2 from the Edwardsport IGCC facility. The OUCC filed testimony supportive of the continuing study of carbon storage, but recommended that Duke Energy Indiana break its plan into phases, recommending approval of only $33 million in expenditures at this time and deferral of expenditures rather than cost recovery through a tracking mechanism as proposed by Duke Energy Indiana. The CAC, an intervenor, recommended against approval of the carbon storage plan stating customers should not be required to pay for research and development costs. Duke Energy Indiana’s rebuttal testimony was filed October 30, 2009, wherein it amended its request to seek deferral of $42 million to cover the carbon storage site assessment and characterization activities scheduled to occur through the end of 2010, with further required study expenditures subject to future IURC proceedings. An evidentiary hearing was held on November 9, 2009, and an order is expected by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion on the above in-process or potential construction projects.  

Fuel Supply  

USFE&G relies principally on coal and nuclear fuel for its generation of electric energy. The following table lists USFE&G’s sources of power and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

9  

PART II  

 (a) Statistics related to coal generation and all fuels reflect USFE&G’s 69% ownership interest in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership interest in Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station.  

 (b) Statistics related to nuclear generation and all fuels reflect USFE&G’s 12.5% interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station through September 30, 2008 and a 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station thereafter.  

 (c) Cost statistics include amounts for light-off fuel at USFE&G’s coal-fired stations.  

 (d) Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods.  

 (e) In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas produced approximately 6,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) in solar generation for 2010; no fuel costs are attributed to this generation.  

Coal. USFE&G meets its coal demand in the Carolinas and Midwest through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. USFE&G uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range from 2011 to 2014 for the Carolinas and 2011 to 2016 for the Midwest. USFE&G expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. The coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in eastern Kentucky, West Virginia and southwestern Virginia. The coal purchased for the regulated Midwest entities is primarily produced in Indiana, Illinois, and Kentucky. USFE&G has an adequate supply of coal under contract to fuel its projected 2011 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2012 operations.  

The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by USFE&G for the Carolinas is between 1% and 2%; while the Midwest is 2%. USFE&G’s scrubbers, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable USFE&G to satisfy current SO2 emission limitations for existing facilities in the Carolinas and Midwest.  

Gas. USFE&G is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to native load customers in its Ohio and Kentucky service territories. USFE&G’s natural gas procurement strategy is to buy firm natural gas supplies (natural gas intended to be available at all times) and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter season (November through March) and during the non-heating season (April through October) through a combination of firm supply and transportation capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This strategy allows USFE&G to assure reliable natural gas supply for its high priority (non-curtailable) firm customers during peak winter conditions and provides USFE&G the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm customers choose alternate gas suppliers under USFE&G customer choice/gas transportation programs. In 2010, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided approximately100% of the natural gas supply. These firm supply agreements feature two levels of gas supply, specifically i. base load, which is a continuous supply to meet normal demand requirements, and ii. swing load, which is gas available on a daily basis to accommodate changes in demand due primarily to changing weather conditions.  

USFE&G also owns two underground caverns with a total storage capacity of 16 million gallons of liquid propane. In addition, USFE&G has access to 5.5 million gallons of liquid propane storage and product loan through a commercial services agreement with a third party. This liquid propane is used in the three propane/air peak shaving plants located in Ohio and Kentucky. Propane/air peak shaving plants vaporize the propane and mix it with natural gas to supplement the natural gas supply during peak demand periods.  

USFE&G maintains natural gas procurement-price volatility mitigation programs for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. These programs pre-arrange percentages of seasonal gas requirements for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky use primarily fixed-price forward contracts and contracts with a ceiling and floor on the price. As of December 31, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky, combined, had locked in pricing for a portion of their winter 2011/2012 system load requirements.  

USFE&G is also responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to the gas turbine generators to serve native electric load customers in the Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky service territories. The natural gas procurement strategy is to contract with one or several suppliers who buy spot market natural gas supplies along with firm or interruptible interstate pipeline transportation capacity for deliveries to the sites. This strategy allows for competitive pricing, flexibility of delivery, and reliable natural gas supplies to each of the natural gas plants. Many of the natural gas plants can be served by several supply zones and multiple pipelines.  

Nuclear. The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the services to convert uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the services to enrich the uranium hexafluoride, and the services to fabricate the enriched uranium hexafluoride into usable fuel assemblies.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations in the Carolinas. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Duke Energy Carolinas staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements at Oconee, McGuire and Catawba in the near-term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Duke Energy Carolinas generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multi-year contracts.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has entered into fuel contracts that, based on its current need projections, cover 100% of the uranium concentrates, conversion services, and enrichment services requirements of the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations through at least 2012 and cover fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2018. For subsequent years, a portion of the fuel requirements at Oconee, McGuire and Catawba are covered by long-term contracts. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Duke Energy Carolinas believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases.  

Energy Efficiency. Several factors have led to increased focus on energy efficiency, including environmental constraints, increasing costs of generating plants and legislative mandates regarding building codes and appliance efficiencies. As a result of these factors, Duke Energy has developed various programs designed to promote the efficient use of electricity by its customers. These programs and associated compensation mechanisms have been filed with various state commissions over the past several years.  

On February 26, 2009, the NCUC approved Duke Energy Carolinas’ energy efficiency programs and authorized Duke Energy Carolinas to implement its rate rider pending approval of a final compensation mechanism by the NCUC. Duke Energy Carolinas began offering energy  

10  

PART II  

 conservation programs to North Carolina retail customers and billing a conservation-program only rider on June 1, 2009. In October 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas also began offering demand response programs in North Carolina. On December 14, 2009, the NCUC approved the save-a-watt compensation model and, effective January 1, 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas began billing a rate rider reflecting both conservation and demand response programs. The save-a-watt programs and compensation approach in North Carolina are approved through December 31, 2013.  

Duke Energy Carolinas began offering demand response and conservation programs to South Carolina retail customers effective June 1, 2009. On January 20, 2010, the PSCSC approved a save-a-watt rider for Duke Energy Carolinas’ energy efficiency programs. Duke Energy Carolinas began billing this rider to retail customers February 1, 2010. The save-a-watt programs and compensation approach in South Carolina are approved through December 31, 2013.  

Save-a-watt was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008, in conjunction with the ESP, and Duke Energy Ohio began offering programs and billing a rate rider effective January 1, 2009. Save-a-watt is approved to continue in Ohio through December 31, 2011.  

On June 17, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana withdrew its request to implement the save-a-watt energy efficiency model approved by the IURC on February 10, 2010. On September 28, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition for new energy efficiency programs to enable meeting the IURC’s energy efficiency mandates. Testimony in support of the petition was filed in early November 2010, and an evidentiary hearing is scheduled to begin March 9, 2011.  

On January 27, 2010, Duke Energy Kentucky withdrew the application to implement save-a-watt. Energy efficiency programs continue under Duke Energy Kentucky’s existing demand-side management program.  

SmartGrid and Distributed Renewable Generation Demonstration Project. Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition and case-in-chief testimony, supporting its request to build an intelligent distribution grid in Indiana. The proposal requested approval of distribution formula rates or, in the alternative, a SmartGrid rider to recover the return on and of the capital costs of the build-out and the recovery of incremental operating and maintenance expenses and lost revenues. Duke Energy Indiana filed supplemental testimony in January 2009 to reflect the impacts of new favorable tax treatment on the cost/benefit analysis for SmartGrid. In response to issues raised by intervenors, Duke Energy Indiana filed rebuttal testimony agreeing to slow its deployment, and agreeing to work with the parties collaboratively to design time differentiated rate and energy management system pilots. During 2009, filings by intervenors and Duke Energy Indiana have been made that address various issues related to SmartGrid. On April 16, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed supplemental testimony in support of a revised SmartGrid proposal. An evidentiary hearing was held in July 2010, and an IURC order is anticipated in the first half of 2011.  

Duke Energy Ohio received approval to recover expenditures incurred to deploy the SmartGrid infrastructure in December 2008 in conjunction with the approval of Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP filing. On June, 30, 2009, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application to establish rates for return of its SmartGrid net costs incurred for gas and electric distribution service through the end of 2008. The rider for recovering electric SmartGrid costs was approved by the PUCO in its order approving the ESP. Duke Energy Ohio proposed its gas SmartGrid rider as part of its most recent gas distribution rate case. A Stipulation and Recommendation was entered into by Duke Energy Ohio, Staff of the PUCO, Kroger Company, and Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, which provides for a revenue increase of $4.2 million under the electric rider and $590,000 under the natural gas rider. Approval of the Stipulation and Recommendation occurred in May 2010. Duke Energy Ohio filed its application for 2009 cost recovery in July 2010 and a Stipulation and Recommendation was filed on February 14, 2011, which provides for a revenue requirement increase of $8.7 million under the electric rider and $5 million under the gas rider. Duke Energy Ohio is awaiting a PUCO order. As part of the Stipulation and Recommendation, Duke Energy Ohio agreed to include a mid-deployment summary and review with its second quarter 2011 filing outlining its expenditures, deployment milestones, system performance levels and customer benefits in comparison to those outlined in the original plan. The PUCO has also begun an audit of the program, the results of which will be addressed in the same case.  

Duke Energy Business Services was awarded a $200 million SmartGrid investment grant from the DOE in October 2009. The original grant application was based on a scaled SmartGrid deployment in Ohio and Indiana and a distribution automation pilot in Kentucky. However, due to the regulatory activities in Indiana described above, the project was re-scoped to include a phased-in approach in Indiana and additional deployments in Kentucky, North Carolina and South Carolina. The re-scoped grant was finalized with the DOE in May 2010.  

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.  

Renewable Energy. Concerns of climate change and energy security, have sparked rising government support of renewable energy legislation at both the federal and state level. For example, the North Carolina legislation (SB 3) established a renewable energy and energy efficiency portfolio standard (REPS) for electric utilities, and in 2008, the state of Ohio also passed legislation that included renewable energy and advanced energy targets. With the passage of Senate Bill 221 (SB 221) in Ohio in 2008, Duke Energy Ohio is required to secure renewable energy and include an increasing percentage of renewables as part of its resource portfolio. The compliance percentages are based on a three-year historical average of its Standard Service Offer load. The requirements begin at 0.25% of the baseline load from all renewable resources, including 0.004% to be specifically from solar beginning in 2009, increasing to 12.5% total renewable, with 0.5% from solar by 2024. Of these percentages, at least 50% of each resource type must come from resources located within the state of Ohio. To address this legislation, Duke Energy Ohio initiated several acquisition activities focused on meeting the specific near-term 2009, 2010 and 2011 requirements. Effective December 10, 2009, the PUCO adopted a set of reporting standards known as “Green Rules” which will regulate energy efficiency, alternative energy generation requirements and emission reporting for activities mandated by SB 221.  

The North Carolina REPS was enacted in 2007 as part of SB 3 and became effective January 1, 2008. SB 3 requires that renewable energy must equal 0.02% of retail sales beginning in 2010 and increases to 12.5% by 2021. A portion of the requirement may be met through energy efficiency programs (less than 25% until 2020 and less than 40% thereafter). A portion may also be met through purchases of unbundled out-of-state renewable energy credits (less than 25%). Duke Energy Carolinas recovers the majority of costs associated with renewable compliance through rate rider regulatory recovery; these costs apply only to North Carolina customers. REPS rider charges are statutorily capped in order to limit the impact of renewable compliance costs on customers and spending beyond the cost cap is not required.  

Duke Energy Carolinas is in full compliance with these requirements.  

Inventory  

Generation of electricity is capital-intensive. USFE&G must maintain an adequate stock of fuel, materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2010, the inventory balance for USFE&G was $1,106 million. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for additional information.  

Nuclear Insurance and Decommissioning  

Duke Energy Carolinas owns and operates the McGuire and Oconee Nuclear Stations and operates and has a partial ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The McGuire and the Catawba Nuclear Stations each have two nuclear reactors and the Oconee Nuclear Station has three. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and business interruption and/or extra expense coverage. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station reimburse Duke Energy Carolinas for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance premiums per the Catawba Nuclear Station joint owner  

11  

PART II  

 agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires Duke Energy Carolinas to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which currently is $12.6 billion. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance,” for more information.  

In 2005, and again in 2009 and 2010, the NCUC and PSCSC, respectively approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for decommissioning. In each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas expensed $48 million and contributed cash of $48 million to the Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF) for decommissioning costs. The entire amount of these contributions were to the funds reserved for contaminated costs as contributions to the funds reserved for non-contaminated costs have been discontinued since the current estimates indicate existing funds to be sufficient to cover projected future costs. The balance of the external NDTF was $2,014 million as of December 31, 2010 and $1,765 million as of December 31, 2009.  

As the NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy Carolinas update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, new site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate includes Duke Energy Carolinas’ 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. Both the NCUC and the PSCSC have allowed Duke Energy Carolinas to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of Duke Energy Carolinas’ nuclear stations. Duke Energy Carolinas believes that the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balance and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning.  

Duke Energy Carolinas filed these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the NCUC and the PSCSC in April 2009. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study was completed and indicates the current annual funding requirement of $48 million is sufficient to cover the estimated decommissioning costs. Duke Energy Carolinas received an order from the NCUC on its rate case filing on December 7, 2009, and from the PSCSC on Duke Energy Carolinas’ rate case on January 27, 2010. Both the NCUC and the PSCSC approved the existing $48 million annual funding level for nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for more information.  

After used fuel is removed from a nuclear reactor, it is cooled in a spent-fuel pool at the nuclear station. Under provisions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Duke Energy Carolinas contracted with the DOE for the disposal of used nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin accepting used nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998, the date specified by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and in Duke Energy’s contract with the DOE. Duke Energy Carolinas will continue to safely manage its used nuclear fuel until the DOE accepts it. In 1998, Duke Energy Carolinas filed a claim with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against the DOE related to the DOE’s failure to accept commercial used nuclear fuel by the required date. Damages claimed in the lawsuit were based upon Duke Energy Carolinas’ costs incurred as a result of the DOE’s partial material breach of its contract, including the cost of securing additional used fuel storage capacity. On March 5, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas and the U.S. Department of Justice reached a settlement resolving Duke Energy Carolinas’ used nuclear fuel litigation against the DOE. The agreement provided for an initial payment to Duke Energy Carolinas for certain storage costs incurred through July 31, 2005, with additional amounts reimbursed annually for future storage costs.  

Asbestos Related Injuries and Damages Claims  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical reimbursements relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985. As of December 31, 2010, there were 284 asserted claims for non-malignant cases with the cumulative relief sought of up to $69 million, and 119 asserted claims for malignant cases with the cumulative relief sought of up to $37 million. Based on Duke Energy’s experience, it is expected that the ultimate resolution of most of these claims likely will be less than the amount claimed.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Reserves recorded on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2030. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2030. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2030 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change management’s estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside Duke Energy’s control, management believes it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of its recorded reserves.  

Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio have also been named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits related to asbestos at their electric generating stations. The impact on Duke Energy’s consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or financial position of these cases to date has not been material. Based on estimates under varying assumptions, concerning uncertainties, such as, among others: (i) the number of contractors potentially exposed to asbestos during construction or maintenance of Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio generating plants; (ii) the possible incidence of various illnesses among exposed workers and (iii) the potential settlement costs without federal or other legislation that addresses asbestos tort actions, Duke Energy estimates that the range of reasonably possible exposure in existing and future suits over the foreseeable future is not material. This estimated range of exposure may change as additional settlements occur and claims are made and more case law is established.  

See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation-Asbestos Related Injuries and Damages Claims,” for more information.  

Competition  

USFE&G competes in some areas with government-owned power systems, municipally owned electric systems, rural electric cooperatives and other private utilities. By statute, the NCUC and the PSCSC assign service areas outside municipalities in North Carolina and South Carolina, respectively, to regulated electric utilities and rural electric cooperatives. Substantially all of the territory comprising Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area has been assigned in this manner. In unassigned areas, Duke Energy Carolinas’ business remains subject to competition. A decision of the North Carolina Supreme Court limits, in some instances, the right of North Carolina municipalities to serve customers outside their corporate limits. In South Carolina, competition continues between municipalities and other electric suppliers outside the municipalities’ corporate limits, subject to the regulation of the PSCSC. In Kentucky, the right of municipalities to serve customers outside corporate limits is subject to court approval. In Ohio, certified suppliers may offer retail electric generation service to residential, commercial  

12  

PART II  

 and industrial customers. In Indiana, the state is divided into certified electric service areas for municipal utilities, rural cooperatives and investor owned utilities. There are limited circumstances where the certified electric service areas can be modified, with approval of the IURC. USFE&G also competes with other utilities and marketers in the wholesale electric business. In addition, USFE&G continues to compete with natural gas providers.  

Regulation  

State  

The NCUC, the PSCSC, the PUCO, the IURC and the KPSC (collectively, the State Utility Commissions) approve rates for retail electric service within their respective states. In addition, the PUCO and the KPSC approve rates for retail gas distribution service within their respective states. The state utility commissions, except for the PUCO, also have authority over the construction and operation of USFE&G’s generating facilities. CPCN’s issued by the State Utility Commissions, as applicable, authorize USFE&G to construct and operate its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state utility commission is required for Duke Energy’s regulated operating companies to issue securities.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2009 North Carolina Rate Case. On June 2, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an Application for Adjustment of Rates and Charges Applicable to Electric Service in North Carolina to increase its base rates. The Application was based upon a historical test year consisting of the 12 months ended December 31, 2008. On October 20, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a settlement agreement with the North Carolina Public Staff. Two organizations representing industrial customers joined the settlement on October 21, 2009. The terms of the agreement include a base rate increase of $315 million (or 8%) phased in primarily over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2010. In order to mitigate the impact of the increase on customers, the agreement provides for (i) a one-year delay in the collection of financing costs related to the Cliffside modernization project until January 1, 2011; and (ii) the accelerated return of certain regulatory liabilities to customers which lowered the total impact to customer bills to an increase of 7% in the near-term. The proposed settlement includes a 10.7% return on equity and a capital structure of 52.5% equity and 47.5% long-term debt. Additionally, Duke Energy Carolinas agreed not to file another rate case before 2011 with any changes to rates taking effect no sooner than 2012. The NCUC approved the settlement agreement in full by order dated December 7, 2009. The new rates were effective January 1, 2010.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2009 South Carolina Rate Case. On July 27, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its Application for Authority to Increase and Adjust Rates and Charges for an increase in rates and charges in South Carolina. On September 25, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed a supplemental request seeking PSCSC approval of a charge to customer bills to pay for Duke Energy Carolinas’ new energy efficiency efforts. Parties to the proceeding include the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS), the South Carolina Energy Users Committee (SCEUC), and the South Carolina Green Party. Duke Energy Carolinas, ORS, and SCEUC filed a settlement agreement on November 24, 2009, recommending, (i) a $74 million increase in base rates, (ii) an allowed return on equity of 11% with rates set at a return on equity of 10.7% and capital structure of 53% equity, and (iii) various riders, including one that provides for the return of Demand Side Management (DSM) charges previously collected from customers over three years rather than five years, and another that provides for a storm reserve provision allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to collect $5 million annually (up to a maximum funding level of $50 million accumulating in reserves) to be used against large storm costs in any particular period. On January 20, 2010, the PSCSC approved the settlement agreement in full, including the cost recovery mechanism for the energy efficiency effort. The new rates were effective February 1, 2010.  

Duke Energy Ohio Electric Rate Filings. New legislation (SB 221) passed in April 2008 and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008 codified the PUCO’s authority to approve an electric utility’s generation Standard Service Offer (SSO). An SSO may include an ESP, which allows for pricing structures similar to those under the historic Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP), or a Market Rate Offer (MRO), in which pricing is determined through a competitive bidding process. On July 31, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed an ESP to be effective January 1, 2009. On December 17, 2008, the PUCO issued its finding and order adopting a modified Stipulation with respect to Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP filing. The PUCO agreed to Duke Energy Ohio’s request for a net increase in base generation revenues, before impacts of customer switching, of $36 million, $74 million and $98 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, including the recovery of expenditures incurred to deploy the SmartGrid infrastructure and the implementation of save-a-watt. See “Commercial Power” section below for additional information related to the ESP.  

Duke Energy Ohio SSO Filing. On November 15, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio filed for approval of its next Standard Service Offer to replace the existing ESP that expires on December 31, 2011. The filing seeks approval of a MRO through which generation supply will ultimately procured through a competitive solicitation format. A technical conference was held November 22, 2010, and the hearing commenced on January 11, 2011. On February 23, 2011, the PUCO stated that Duke Energy Ohio did not file an application for a five-year MRO as required under Ohio statute. As a result, the PUCO ordered that the case cannot proceed as filed. Duke Energy Ohio is evaluating its options and plans to file a revised SSO in early second quarter of 2011.   

For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters—Rate Related Information.”  

Federal  

The FERC approves USFE&G’s cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale customers. Regulations of FERC and the State Utility Commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customer and other data by non-regulated entities, and services provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of non-regulated affiliates with USFE&G.  

Regional Transmission Organizations. Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana are transmission owners in a regional transmission organization operated by the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (Midwest ISO), a non-profit organization which maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members. In 2005, the Midwest ISO began administering an energy market within its footprint and in January 2009 it began administering an ancillary services market. Additionally, in April 2009, the Midwest ISO began administering a voluntary capacity auction, and in June 2009, instituted a tariff based capacity requirement.  

The Midwest ISO is the provider of transmission service requested on the transmission facilities under its tariff. It is responsible for the reliable operation of those transmission facilities and the regional planning of new transmission facilities. The Midwest ISO administers energy markets utilizing Locational Marginal Pricing (i.e., the energy price for the next MW may vary throughout the Midwest ISO market based on transmission congestion and energy losses) as the methodology for relieving congestion on the transmission facilities under its functional control.  

On May 20, 2010, Duke Energy Kentucky filed an application with the KPSC requesting permission to transfer control of certain of its transmission assets from the Midwest ISO to PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM). There may be significant costs associated with this transition related to Midwest ISO transmission expansion costs and exit obligations. A hearing was held on November 3, 2010, and briefs were filed by November 19, 2010. On December 22, 2010, the KPSC issued an order granting approval for the transition, subject to several conditions. On January 25, 2011, the KPSC issued an order stating that the order had been satisfied and is now unconditional. The order further requires Duke Energy Kentucky to submit to the KPSC internal procedures for the receipt and tracking of notices from PJM regarding customer requests to participate in PJM demand-response programs.  

13  

PART II  

On June 25, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky submitted an initial filing to the FERC requesting that it issue an order by November 1, 2010 determining that the RTO realignment meets FERC standards for withdrawal from the RTO and approving the participation of Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky load and resources in certain PJM reliability pricing model auctions. The FERC issued an order which approved Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky’s request on October 21, 2010, and authorized Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky to terminate their existing obligations to the Midwest ISO, subject to certain conditions.  

On December 16, 2010, FERC issued an order related to the Midwest ISO’s cost allocation methodology surrounding Multi Value Projects (MVP), a type of Midwest ISO transmission expansion cost. The Midwest ISO expects that MVP will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring renewable generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the eastern portion of the Midwest ISO footprint. The order provides for the allocation of MVP costs to withdrawing transmission owners for projects approved by the Midwest ISO up to date of the withdrawing transmission owners’ exit from the Midwest ISO. The basis for allocating such MVP costs is the withdrawing transmission owners’ historical usage of the Midwest ISO system. The impact of this order could result in an increase in the Midwest ISO transmission expansion costs incurred by Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky subsequent to a withdrawal from Midwest ISO. Duke Energy Ohio, among other parties, is seeking rehearing of the FERC MVP order.  

Duke Energy Ohio is currently negotiating with various stakeholders regarding recovery of the costs associated with the exit from the Midwest ISO.  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.  

Other  

USFE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. In 2000, the NRC renewed the operating license for Duke Energy Carolinas’ three Oconee nuclear units through 2033 for Units 1 and 2 and through 2034 for Unit 3. In 2003, the NRC renewed the operating licenses for all units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ McGuire and Catawba stations. The two McGuire units are licensed through 2041 and 2043, respectively, while the two Catawba units are licensed through 2043. All but one of USFE&G’s hydroelectric generating facilities are licensed by the FERC under Part I of the Federal Power Act, with license terms expiring from 2005 to 2036. The FERC has authority to issue new hydroelectric generating licenses. Hydroelectric facilities whose licenses expired in 2005 through 2010 are operating under annual extensions of the current license until FERC issues a new license. Other hydroelectric facilities whose licenses expire between 2011 and 2016 are in various stages of relicensing. Duke Energy expects to receive new licenses for all applicable hydroelectric facilities with the exception of the Dillsboro Project, for which Duke Energy requested and the FERC approved license surrender. Duke Energy Carolinas has removed the Dillsboro Project dam and powerhouse as part of multi-project and multi-stakeholder agreements and Duke Energy Carolinas is continuing with stream restoration and post-removal monitoring as requested by FERC’s license surrender order.  

USFE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.  

COMMERCIAL POWER  

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation operations, excluding renewable energy generation assets, consist primarily of coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio which are dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. These assets comprise of 7,550 net MW of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with base-load and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. Effective January 1, 2009, Commercial Power’s primarily coal-fired generation assets began operating under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP, which expires on December 31, 2011, and is described below. Prior to January 1, 2009, these generation assets were contracted through the RSP, which expired on December 31, 2008.  

The following map shows the Commercial Power service territory and generation facilities.  

14  

PART II  

Commercial Power also has a retail sales subsidiary, Duke Energy Retail, which is certified by the PUCO as a CRES provider in Ohio. Duke Energy Retail serves retail electric customers in southwest, west central and northern Ohio with energy and other energy services at competitive rates. Due to increased levels of customer switching as a result of the competitive markets in Ohio, which is discussed further below, Duke Energy Retail has focused on acquiring customers that had previously been served by Duke Energy Ohio under the ESP, as well as those previously served by other Ohio franchised utilities.  

Through DEGS, Commercial Power develops, owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities. DEGS currently manages 4,440 MW of power generation at 28 facilities throughout the U.S. In addition, DEGS engages in the development, construction and operation of renewable energy projects. Currently, DEGS has over 5,000 MW of renewable energy projects in the development pipeline with 1,002 net MW of renewable generating capacity in operation as of December 31, 2010. DEGS is also developing transmission and biomass projects.  

The following map shows the location of DEGS generation assets.  

15  

PART II  

Rates and Regulation  

Effective January 1, 2009, Commercial Power’s primarily coal-fired generation assets began operating under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP, which expires on December 31, 2011. Prior to the ESP, these generation assets had been contracted through the RSP, which expired on December 31, 2008. The ESP consists of the following discrete charges:  

   •    Annually Adjusted Component (AAC) Rider- This rider is intended to provide cost recovery primarily for certain environmental compliance expenditures. This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

   •    Fuel and Purchased Power (FPP) Rider – This rider is intended to provide cost recovery for fuel, purchased power and emission allowance expenses (including carbon or energy taxes) incurred to generate or procure electricity for retail ratepayers that are provided service by Duke Energy Ohio. This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

   •    Capacity Dedication Rider – This rider is intended to provide cost recovery for maintaining the generation fleet to serve the retail rate payers. This component is not avoidable (or non-by-passable) by customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

   •    System Reliability Tracker – This tracker is intended to provide actual cost recovery for capacity purchases made to maintain adequate reserve margin. This component is not avoidable (or non-by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

16  

PART II  

   •    Base Generation Charge – This component reflects a market price for retail generation service and is not a cost-based rate. This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

   •    Transmission Cost Recovery Rider – The generation portion of this rider is designed to permit Duke Energy Ohio to recover certain Midwest ISO charges and all FERC approved transmission costs allocable to retail ratepayers that are provided service by Duke Energy Ohio. This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.  

Commercial Power’s primarily coal-fired assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed wholesale.  

Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply regulatory accounting treatment to any of its operations due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. In April 2008, new legislation (SB 221) was passed in Ohio and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law codified the PUCO’s authority to approve an electric utility’s Standard Service Offer either through an ESP or a MRO, which is a price determined through a competitive bidding process. On July 31, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed an ESP and, with certain amendments, the ESP was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008. The approval of the ESP on December 17, 2008 resulted in the reapplication of regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations as of that date. The ESP became effective on January 1, 2009.  

Under the ESP, Commercial Power bills for its retail load generation via numerous riders. SB 221 and the ESP resulted in the approval of an enhanced recovery mechanism for certain of these riders, which includes, but is not limited to, a price-to-compare fuel and purchased power rider and certain portions of a price-to-compare cost of environmental compliance rider. Accordingly, Commercial Power began applying regulatory accounting treatment to the corresponding RSP riders that enhanced the recovery mechanism for recovery under the ESP on December 17, 2008. The remaining portions of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load generation operations, revenues from which are reflected in rate riders for which the ESP does not specifically allow enhanced recovery, as well as all generation associated with wholesale operations, including Commercial Power’s gas-fired generation assets, continue to not apply regulatory accounting as those operations do not meet the necessary accounting criteria. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and retail load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of the regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. In assessing the probability of recovery of its regulatory assets established for its retail load generation operations, Duke Energy continues to monitor the amount of retail load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers. At December 31, 2010, management has concluded that the established regulatory assets are still probable of recovery even though there have been increased levels of customer switching.  

Despite certain portions of the Ohio retail load operations not meeting the criteria for applying regulatory accounting treatment, all of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load operations’ rates are subject to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to here-in as Commercial Power’s regulated operations.  

Commercial Power is subject to regulation at the state level, primarily from PUCO and at the federal level, primarily from FERC. The PUCO approves prices for all retail electric generation sales by Duke Energy Ohio for its retail service territory. See “Regulation” section within USFE&G for additional information regarding the regulatory environment in Ohio.  

Regulations of FERC and the PUCO govern access to regulated electric customer and other data by non-regulated entities, and services provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of Commercial Power.  

Commercial Power is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.)  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.  

Market Environment and Competition  

Similar to USFE&G’s operations, the overall economic conditions have negatively impacted Commercial Power’s retail volumes for all customer classes. Commercial Power competes for wholesale contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, coal, natural gas and emission allowances. The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the energy marketing business. Commercial Power’s main competitors include other non-regulated generators in the Midwestern U.S., wholesale power, coal and natural gas marketers, renewable energy companies and financial institutions and hedge funds engaged in energy commodity marketing and trading.  

Continuing low commodity prices have put downward pressure on power prices. The available capacity and lower prices have provided opportunities for customers in Ohio to switch generation suppliers. Competitive power suppliers have begun supplying power to current Commercial Power customers in Ohio and Commercial Power experienced an increase in customer switching beginning in the second quarter of 2009 which continued into 2010. As of December 31, 2010, customer switching levels approximated 65% of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load. However, through Duke Energy Retail, Commercial Power has been able to acquire 60% of the switched load by offering customers a choice between discounts to the ESP price or fixed price arrangements. Additionally, Duke Energy Retail has been able to acquire new customers previously served by other Ohio franchised utilities.  

Fuel Supply  

Commercial Power relies on coal and natural gas for its generation of electric energy.  

Coal. Commercial Power meets its coal demand through a portfolio of purchase supply contracts and spot agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under supply contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Commercial Power uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by supply contracts. Expiration dates for its supply contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range through 2012. Commercial Power expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. The coal purchased is primarily produced in Illinois, Ohio and eastern Kentucky. Commercial Power has an adequate supply of coal to fuel its projected 2011 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2012 operations. The majority of Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation is equipped with flue gas desulfurization equipment. As a result, Commercial Power is able to satisfy the current emission limitations for SO2 for existing facilities.  

Gas. Commercial Power is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to its gas turbine generators. The majority of Commercial Power’s natural gas requirements are purchased in the spot market on an as-needed basis.  

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY  

International Energy principally operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power, natural gas, and natural gas liquids outside the U.S. It conducts operations primarily through DEI and its affiliates and its activities principally target power generation in Latin America. Additionally, International Energy owns a 25% interest in NMC, a large regional producer of methanol and MTBE located in Saudi Arabia. The investment in NMC is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. International Energy has a 25% ownership interest in Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki), a natural gas distributor located in Athens, Greece,  

17  

PART II  

 which was accounted for under the equity method of accounting through December 31, 2009. In January 2010, the counterparty to Attiki’s non-recourse debt issued a notice of default due to Duke Energy’s failure to make a scheduled semi-annual installment payment of principal and interest in November 2009 and following Duke Energy’s December 2009 decision to abandon its investment in Attiki and the related non-recourse debt. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions,” for additional information.  

International Energy’s customers include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power producers, marketers and industrial/commercial companies. International Energy’s current strategy is focused on optimizing the value of its current Latin American portfolio and expanding the portfolio through investment in generation opportunities in Latin America.  

International Energy owns, operates or has substantial interests in 4,500 gross MW of generation facilities.  

The following map shows the locations of International Energy’s facilities, including its interests in non-electric generation facilities in Saudi Arabia.  

Competition and Regulation  

International Energy’s sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with other generators and marketers serving its market areas. Competitors are country and region-specific but include government-owned electric generating companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and other privately-owned electric generating and marketing companies. The principal elements of competition are price and availability, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service.  

A high percentage of International Energy’s portfolio consists of base load hydroelectric generation facilities which compete with other forms of electric generation available to International Energy’s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel oils. Economic  

18  

PART II  

 activity, conservation, legislation, governmental regulations, weather, additional generation capacities and other factors affect the supply and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy.  

International Energy’s operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and regulations. (See “Environmental Matters” in this section.)  

OTHER  

The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not an operating segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison, Duke Energy’s wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the Duke Energy Foundation, Duke Energy’s effective 50% interest in DukeNet and related telecom businesses, and DETM, which is 40% owned by Exxon Mobil Corporation and 60% owned by Duke Energy and management is currently in the process of winding down.  

Bison’s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification and reinsurance of various business risks and losses, such as property, business interruption and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke Energy. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the southeast U.S., serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers and other businesses and organizations.  

Competition and Regulation  

The entities within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.)  

GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS  

For a discussion of Duke Energy’s foreign operations and certain of the risks associated with them, see “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Risk,” and Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments” and “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” respectively.  

EMPLOYEES  

On December 31, 2010, Duke Energy had 18,440 employees. A total of 4,550 operating and maintenance employees were represented by unions.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DUKE ENERGY  

STEPHEN G. DE MAY, 48, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. Mr. De May assumed the role of Treasurer in November 2007 and in October 2009 Mr. De May assumed additional responsibility for investor relations. Prior to that, he served as Assistant Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Corp (Cinergy). Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. De May served as Vice President, Energy and Environmental Policy of Duke Energy since February 2004.  

LYNN J. GOOD, 51, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Good assumed her current position in July 2009. In November 2007, Ms. Good began serving as President, Commercial Businesses. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since December 2006; prior to that she served as Treasurer and Vice President, Financial Planning since October 2006; and prior to that she served as Vice President and Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Ms. Good served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cinergy from August 2005 and Vice President, Finance and Controller of Cinergy from November 2003 to August 2005.  

DHIAA M. JAMIL, 54, Group Executive, Chief Generation Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer. Mr. Jamil assumed his position as Chief Generation Officer in July 2009 and his position as Chief Nuclear Officer in February 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, Nuclear Support, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC since March 2007; and prior to that he served as Vice President, Catawba Nuclear Station, since March 2004.  

MARC E. MANLY, 58, Group Executive, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Manly assumed the role of Corporate Secretary in December 2008 and assumed position of Chief Legal Officer in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Manly served as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Cinergy since November 2002.  

JAMES E. ROGERS, 63, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rogers assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer and President in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy and assumed the role of Chairman on January 2, 2007. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Rogers served as Chairman of the Board of Cinergy since 2000 and as Chief Executive Officer of Cinergy since 1995.  

B. KEITH TRENT, 51, Group Executive and President, Commercial Businesses. Mr. Trent assumed his current position in July 2009. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy, Policy and Regulatory Officer since May 2007. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy and Policy Officer since October 2006 and prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Development Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Trent served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Duke Energy since March 2005. Prior to that he served as General Counsel, Litigation of Duke Energy from May 2002 to March 2005.  

JENNIFER L. WEBER, 44, Group Executive of Human Resources and Corporate Relations. Ms. Weber assumed her current position in January 2011. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Scripps Networks Interactive from 2005 to 2008.  

STEVEN K. YOUNG, 52, Senior Vice President and Controller. Mr. Young assumed his current position in December 2006. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Controller since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Young served as Vice President and Controller of Duke Energy since June 2005. Prior to that Mr. Young served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy Carolinas from March 2003 to June 2005.  

Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected.  

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.  

GENERAL  

Duke Energy Subsidiaries Overview.  

Duke Energy Carolinas. Duke Energy Carolinas generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North Carolina and western South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, the PSCSC, the NRC and  

19  

PART II  

 FERC. Duke Energy Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. Substantially all of Franchised Electric operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area covers 24,000 square miles with an estimated population of 6.6 million in central and western North Carolina and western South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas supplies electric service to 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers over 101,400 miles of distribution lines and a 13,100 mile transmission system.  

The remainder of Duke Energy Carolinas’ operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily consists of certain governance costs allocated by its parent, Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy Ohio. Duke Energy Ohio is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cinergy, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Duke Energy Ohio is a combination electric and gas public utility that provides service in the southwestern portion of Ohio and in northern Kentucky through its wholly-owned subsidiary Duke Energy Kentucky, as well as electric generation in parts of Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Pennsylvania. Duke Energy Ohio’s principal lines of business include generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, the sale of and/or transportation of natural gas, and energy marketing. Duke Energy Kentucky’s principal lines of business include generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as the sale of and/or transportation of natural gas. References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and its subsidiaries. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUCO, the KPSC and FERC.  

Duke Energy Ohio Business Segments. At December 31, 2010, Duke Energy Ohio operated two business segments, both of which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules: Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

The following is a brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy Ohio’s reportable business segments, as well as Other:  

Franchised Electric and Gas. Franchised Electric and Gas consists of Duke Energy Ohio’s regulated electric and gas transmission and distribution systems, including its regulated electric generation in Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas plans, constructs, operates and maintains Duke Energy Ohio’s transmission and distribution systems, which generate, transmit and distribute electric energy to consumers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas also transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of FERC, the PUCO and the KPSC. Substantially all of Franchised Electric and Gas’ operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s Franchised Electric and Gas service area covers 3,000 square miles with an estimated population of 2.2 million in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas supplies electric service to 820,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers over 19,800 miles of distribution lines and a 2,500 mile transmission system in Ohio and Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers via 7,200 miles of gas mains (gas distribution lines that serve as a common source of supply for more than one service line) and 6,000 miles of service lines. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Franchised Electric and Gas’ generating facilities.  

Commercial Power. Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants, as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation operations consists of primarily coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio which are dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. These assets are comprised of 7,550 net MW of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with base-load and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power reportable operating segment does not include the operations of DEGS or Duke Energy Retail, which is included in the Commercial Power reportable operating segment at Duke Energy. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Commercial Power’s generating facilities. Through December 31, 2008, most of the generation asset output in Ohio was contracted through the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP). Effective January 1, 2009, Commercial Power began operating under an ESP, which expires on December 31, 2011. As a result of the approval of the ESP, certain of Commercial Power’s operations reapplied regulatory accounting treatment effective December 17, 2008. See Notes 1 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” and “Regulatory Matters,” respectively, for a discussion of the reapplication of regulatory accounting treatment to certain of Commercial Power’s operations, as well as for further discussion related to the RSP and ESP.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s primarily coal-fired assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the ESP load customer base, and such revenue is termed wholesale.  

In 2010 Duke Energy Ohio earned approximately 13% of its consolidated operating revenues from PJM. These revenues relate to the sale of capacity and electricity from the gas-fired non-regulated generation assets. In 2009 and 2008 no single counterparty contributed 10% or more of consolidated operating revenue.  

Other. The remainder of Duke Energy Ohio’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily consists of certain governance costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cinergy. Duke Energy Indiana generates, transmits and distributes electricity in north central, central, and southern Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC. Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. The substantial majority of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

Duke Energy Indiana’s service area covers 22,000 square miles with an estimated population of 2.94 million in north central, central, and southern Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana supplies electric service to 790,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers over 31,000 miles of distribution lines and a 5,400 mile transmission system.  

The remainder of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.  

20  

PART II  

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Duke Energy is also subject to international laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:  

   •    The Clean Air Act (CAA), as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.  

   •    The Clean Water Act which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment.  

   •    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.  

   •    The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.  

   •    The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations. Additionally, other potential future environmental laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, if such laws are enacted, the Duke Energy Registrants would seek appropriate regulatory recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.  

For more information on environmental matters involving the Duke Energy Registrants, including possible liability and capital costs, see Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and “Commitments and Contingencies—Environmental,” respectively. Except to the extent discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” compliance with current international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.  

21  

PART II  

Item 1A. Risk Factors.