ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

BB&T is a financial holding company headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. BB&T conducts its business operations primarily through its commercial bank subsidiary, Branch Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 

Operating Subsidiaries  

The principal operating subsidiaries of BB&T include the following: 

 ·Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina  

 ·BB&T Securities, LLC, Richmond, Virginia 

 ·Regional Acceptance Corporation, Greenville, North Carolina  

 ·American Coastal Insurance Company, Davie, Florida  

 ·Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina  

Branch Bank, BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 1,832 offices (as of December 31, 2012). Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include: 

 ·BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;  

 ·BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers clients non-deposit investment alternatives, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;  

 ·BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;  

6 

Table of Contents  

·Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiary AFCO Credit Corporation, headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada;  

 ·Grandbridge, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans;  

 ·Lendmark Financial Services, Inc., located in Covington, Georgia, which offers consumer loans to clients unable to meet Branch Bank’s normal credit underwriting guidelines;  

 ·CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide;  

 ·McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial and energy clients, including many Fortune 500 companies; and  

 ·Crump Group, Inc., based in New Jersey, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide.  

BB&T FSB, based in Columbus, Georgia, was merged into Branch Bank effective January 1, 2013. Sheffield Financial, based in Clemmons, North Carolina, specializes in loans to small commercial lawn care businesses across the country for the purchase of outdoor power equipment and loans to individuals for power sport and leisure equipment. Sheffield was a subsidiary of BB&T FSB and was also merged into Branch Bank effective January 1, 2013. 

Major Nonbank Subsidiaries  

BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including: 

 ·BB&T Securities, LLC was formed by the merger of Scott & Stringfellow, LLC and Clearview Correspondent Services, LLC on January 1, 2013. BB&T Securities is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital markets. It also has a public finance department that provides investment banking, financial advisory services and debt underwriting services to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. BB&T Securities also provides correspondent clearing services to other broker-dealers and entities involved in the securities industry. As a correspondent clearing firm, it provides clearing services to affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers;  

 ·Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles;  

 ·American Coastal Insurance Company, an admitted Florida specialty insurance company that underwrites property insurance risks for commercial condominium or cooperative associations; and  

 ·Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a registered investment advisor and the advisor to the Sterling Capital Management Funds and Sterling Capital Variable Insurance Funds, provides tailored investment management solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies, including domestic and international equity, alternative investment products and strategies, and fixed income investing. 

Services  

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients. BB&T’s objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs. 

7 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T operates in markets that have a diverse employment base and primarily consist of manufacturing, general services, agricultural, wholesale/retail trade, technology, government and financial services. Management strongly believes that BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. Furthermore, BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive, and dramatic change continues to occur in all aspects of BB&T’s business. The ability of nonbank financial entities to provide services previously reserved for commercial banks has intensified competition. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers,  

8 

Table of Contents  

including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies and insurance companies. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. In addition, some financial services entities are still experiencing significant challenges as a result of the economic crisis, resulting in bank and thrift failures. For additional information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies, and recent government interventions see “Market Area” above and “General Business Development” below. 

General Business Development  

BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expanding and diversifying the BB&T franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size. This strategy has encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses. During the 1990s and through the mid-2000s, BB&T’s growth resulted largely from mergers and acquisitions as the economics of business combinations were compelling. Since that time, BB&T has focused more on organic growth, but is well positioned for strategic opportunities. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy  

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to future merger and acquisition opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess bank and thrift acquisitions subject to market conditions, primarily within BB&T’s existing footprint, and will pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s strategy is currently focused on meeting the following three acquisition criteria: 

 ·transactions must be strategically attractive – meaning that any bank acquisition should be in BB&T’s existing footprint to allow for cost savings and economies of scale, or in contiguous states to provide market diversification; 

 ·any credit-related issues would need to be addressed; and 

 ·acquisitions must meet BB&T’s financial criteria. 

Regulatory Considerations  

The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and specific information about BB&T. Regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the DIF and the stability of the financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As described in more detail below, comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory landscape occurred with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rulemaking activities continued in 2012. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, BB&T is subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of BB&T and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. 

BB&T’s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in state and federal laws and regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including those referred to in this section. Proposals to change the laws and regulations to which BB&T is subject are frequently introduced at both the federal and state levels. The likelihood and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on BB&T is impossible to determine with any certainty. The description herein summarizes the significant state and federal laws to which BB&T currently is subject. To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions are described in this section, such descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions. 

Financial Regulatory Reform  

The past two years have resulted in a significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight for U.S. financial services firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive, complicated and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, representing a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes that affect financial companies, including banks and BHCs such as BB&T, by, among other things: 

9 

Table of Contents  

·Requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically important financial institutions by establishing an interagency council on systemic risk and implementation of heightened prudential standards and regulation by the FRB for systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank financial companies), as well as the implementation of the FDIC resolution procedures for liquidation of large financial companies to avoid market disruption;  

 ·applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most BHCs, savings and loan holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies; 

 ·limiting the FRB’s emergency authority to lend to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions and their holding companies, subject to the approval of Congress, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the FRB; 

 ·centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new independent agency, the CFPB, with responsibility for implementing, enforcing and examining compliance with federal consumer financial laws; 

 ·creating regimes for regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and reinsurers; 

 ·requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction be “reasonable” and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with new regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminate exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions and limit restrictions on merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards; 

 ·transferring the functions of the OTS relating to federal savings associations, including rulemaking authority, to the OCC; 

 ·implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity advisers by requiring such advisers to register with the SEC; 

 ·providing for the implementation of certain corporate governance provisions for all public companies concerning executive compensation; 

 ·increasing the FDIC’s deposit insurance limits permanently to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts and changing the assessment base as well as increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF to ensure the future strength of the DIF; and 

 ·reforming regulation of credit rating agencies. 

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. BB&T will continue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

As a BHC and a financial holding company under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting requirements of the FRB. Branch Bank, a state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC. 

State and federal law govern the activities in which Branch Bank engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Branch Bank also is affected by the actions of the FRB as it attempts to control the monetary supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. 

In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in securities underwriting, dealing, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, and supervision and examination by other state and federal regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, NYSE, and various state insurance and securities regulators. 

Financial Holding Company Regulation  

Under current federal law, a BHC, such as BB&T, may elect to become a financial holding company, which allows the holding company to offer customers virtually any type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including 

10 

Table of Contents  

banking and activities closely related thereto, securities underwriting, insurance (both underwriting and agency) and merchant banking. In order to qualify and maintain its status as a financial holding company, a financial holding company and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be well-capitalized, well-managed, and have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a financial holding company is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the company has a period of time to comply, but during the period of noncompliance, the FRB can place any limitations on the financial holding company that it believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the FRB determines that a financial holding company has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the company will not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting merchant banking activities. BB&T is a financial holding company and currently satisfies the requirements to maintain its status as a financial holding company. 

Most of the financial activities that are permissible for financial holding companies also are permissible for a bank’s “financial subsidiary,” except for insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate investments and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducted in a financial holding company. In order for permissible financial activities to be engaged in by a financial subsidiary of a bank, federal law requires the parent bank (and its sister-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the aggregate consolidated assets of all of that bank’s financial subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or other comparable requirements. 

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the FRB is the umbrella regulator for BHCs, but BHC affiliates are principally regulated by functional regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank affiliates, the OCC for thrifts, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities may be conducted in the bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of functional regulation. Although states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable areas. 

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes additional regulation for BHCs, which will generally apply to BB&T. The Council is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor emerging risks to financial stability, recommend heightened prudential standards for large, interconnected financial companies and require certain nonbank financial companies to be supervised by the FRB if their activities are determined to pose a risk to financial stability. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new prudential regulation on depository institutions and their holding companies. The law imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to (1) bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, (2) financial holding companies engaged in “financial activities,” (3) affiliate transactions and (4) proprietary trading, among other provisions. 

Enhanced Supervision Standards for Systemically Important Financial Institutions 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to establish enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including BHCs like BB&T, with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (often referred to as systemically important financial institutions). The Council may make recommendations to the FRB on those standards. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. 

Resolution Planning 

In September 2011, the FDIC adopted rules implementing “living will” requirements for systemically important financial institutions such as BB&T. These requirements impose obligations on systemically important financial institutions to file, maintain and update plans for an institution’s rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. Both the FRB and the FDIC must review and approve BB&T’s living will and are authorized to impose restrictions on BB&T’s growth and activities or operations if deemed necessary. BB&T’s initial plans are expected to be submitted to the FRB and the FDIC in December 2013. Following the initial submission, BB&T is required to submit annual resolution plans by July 1 of each subsequent year. 

CCAR and Stress Test Requirements 

In November 2011, the FRB published a final rule requiring BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios. Capital plans are required to be submitted on an annual basis. Such BHCs will also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis  

11 

Table of Contents  

to allow the FRB to monitor the companies’ progress against their annual capital plans. Covered BHCs, including BB&T, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the FRB and as to which the FRB has not objected. The rules also require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. BB&T submitted its capital plan to the FRB for 2012 and thereafter received notice that the FRB had no objections to the capital plan. BB&T submitted its 2013 capital plan for review in January 2013. 

In addition to the CCAR process, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets and to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. In October 2012, the FRB adopted final stress testing rules for covered BHCs that describe the types of supervisory scenarios that may be provided in connection with the annual CCAR process, and require that BB&T (as well as other covered BHCs) conduct a separate mid-year stress test, file the results of such test with the FRB in early July and publicly disclose details of the scenario and the impact on BHC capital by the end of September of each year. These stress test rules became effective for BB&T in November 2012. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for FDIC-insured state nonmember banks such as Branch Bank with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets and requires such institutions to conduct annual company-run stress tests. The FDIC adopted final annual stress testing rules in October 2012. 

OCC 

Prior to January 1, 2013, BB&T FSB, as a federally chartered thrift, was subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. Effective January 1, 2013, BB&T FSB was merged into Branch Bank and no longer exists as a separate entity and, therefore, is no longer regulated by the OCC. 

Acquisitions  

BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquisition activity. Under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation. Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years; and subject to certain deposit market-share limitations. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations  

The FRB has enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event the depository institution is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, under requirements of the FRB with respect to BHC operations, a BHC is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the “cross-guarantee” provisions of federal law require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the DIF as a result of the insolvency of commonly controlled insured depository institutions or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled insured depository institutions in danger of failure. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interests of the DIF. The FDIC’s claim for reimbursement under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of subordinated debt of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. 

12 

Table of Contents  

Federal and state banking regulators also have broad enforcement powers over Branch Bank, including the power to impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a conservator (with the approval of the Governor in the case of a North Carolina state bank) in order to conserve the assets of any such institution for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The North Carolina Commissioner of Banks also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements  

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from Branch Bank and its subsidiaries. The majority of the Parent Company’s revenue is from dividends paid by Branch Bank. Branch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends it can pay. In addition, BB&T and Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to remain “well-capitalized” under the prompt corrective action regulations summarized elsewhere in this section. Federal banking regulators have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if (1) the organization’s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. BB&T’s 2013 capital actions will depend on the FRB’s review of BB&T’s 2013 capital plan. 

North Carolina law states that, provided a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

The FRB and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to banking organizations they supervise, including BHCs and banks. Under the current risk-based capital requirements, BB&T and Branch Bank are each generally required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) of 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of common shareholders’ equity excluding the over or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities; less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes and certain nonfinancial equity investments. This is called “Tier 1 capital.” The remainder may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the ACL. This is called “Tier 2 capital.” Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referred to as total regulatory capital. 

The FRB requires BHCs that engage in trading activities to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to take into consideration market risks that may result from movements in market prices of covered trading positions in trading accounts, or from foreign exchange or commodity positions, whether or not in trading accounts, including changes in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. Any capital required to be maintained under these provisions may consist of “Tier 3 capital” consisting of forms of short-term subordinated debt. 

The FRB and the FDIC also have established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. These requirements provide that banking organizations that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%. Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, are expected to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio at least 100 basis points above that stated minimum. BHCs experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. The FRB also continues to consider a “tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activity. 

In addition, the FRB and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital standards that explicitly identify concentrations of credit risk and the risk arising from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution’s ability to manage these risks, as important factors to be taken into account by each agency in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy. The capital guidelines also provide that an institution’s exposure to a decline in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates be considered by the agency as a factor in evaluating a banking organization’s capital adequacy. The agencies also require banks and BHCs to adjust their regulatory capital to take into consideration the risk associated with certain recourse obligations, direct credit subsidies, residual interest and other positions in securitized transactions that expose banking organizations to credit risk. 

13 

Table of Contents  

As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, provisions were added that require federal banking agencies to develop capital requirements, which are discussed in more detail below. The effect of these capital rules will disallow trust preferred securities from inclusion as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets with a three-year phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013. 

Information related to certain capital ratios is shown in the following table. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the FDIC, are required to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions and their BHCs that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five capital categories for insured depository institutions for this purpose: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” To be considered “well-capitalized” under these standards, an institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater; a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater; a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater; and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

Federal law also requires the bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five capital categories, with progressively more severe restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions according to the category in which an institution is placed. Failure to meet capital requirements also may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law also mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. 

In addition to the “prompt corrective action” directives, failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

Basel III 

In 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervisors of the BCBS, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, published Basel III. Under these standards, when fully phased in, banking institutions will be required to maintain heightened Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios, as well as maintaining a “capital conservation buffer.” As proposed, Basel III provides for the Tier 1 common equity and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements to be phased in incrementally between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015; the deductions from common equity made in calculating Tier 1 common equity (for example, for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated financial institutions) to be phased in incrementally over a four-year period commencing on January 1, 2014; and the capital conservation buffer to be phased in incrementally between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. The BCBS also announced that a “countercyclical buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss-absorbing capital “will be implemented according to national circumstances” as an “extension” of the conservation buffer. The final package of Basel III reforms were approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010 and are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. 

U.S. Implementation of Basel III 

In June 2012, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a joint release announcing three separate NPRs seeking comment on proposed rules that would revise and replace their current capital rules in a manner consistent with relevant provisions of the Dodd- 

14 

Table of Contents  

Frank Act as well as the implementation of Basel III. The comment period on these NPRs ended on October 22, 2012. Also in June 2012, these agencies announced the finalization of their market risk capital rule proposed in 2011. 

One NPR proposes the majority of the revisions to international capital standards in Basel III, including a more restrictive definition of regulatory capital, higher minimum regulatory capital requirements, and the imposition of capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers. It also proposes limitations on certain distributions and discretionary bonuses as well as revisions to the agencies’ prompt corrective action regulations. Another NPR proposes new methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets, such as by expanding the number and type of exposure categories, providing a more comprehensive recognition of collateral and guarantees, and introducing or applying more risk-sensitive treatment for certain exposures (including certain high-volatility CRE, corporate, equity, foreign, securitization, derivative, residential mortgage, and 90 day or more past due exposures). It also proposes detailed qualitative and quantitative public disclosure requirements relating to capital adequacy. The final NPR proposes to revise the current advanced approaches risk-based capital rule to incorporate certain aspects of Basel III as well as certain other revisions to the Basel capital framework published by the BCBS between 2009 and 2011. While BB&T and Branch Bank would be subject to the first two NPRs, they would not be subject to the third NPR. 

While Basel III is intended to be implemented on a global basis beginning January 1, 2013, to be fully-phased in by January 1, 2019, on November 9, 2012 the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a joint release announcing that the implementation of the proposed rules under Basel III in the U.S. would be delayed. 

New Minimum Capital Requirements 

While uncertainty exists regarding the timing for adoption of the foregoing revised capital standards, if such capital standards are adopted in their current form, we estimate these standards would have a negligible impact on our ability to comply with the revised regulatory capital ratios based on our current understanding of the revisions to capital qualification. Once adopted, banking organizations such as BB&T would be required to meet the following minimum capital and leverage ratios – 3.5% common equity Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets, 4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, 8.0% total capital to risk-weighted assets and 4% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets minus amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital. The implementation of a capital conservation buffer, effectively raising the minimum capital requirements, will begin on January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of common equity to risk-weighted assets and be phased-in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). 

When fully phased-in, the Basel III capital framework will require BB&T and Branch Bank to maintain: (1) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; (2) a Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; (3) a minimum ratio of total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; and (4) a minimum leverage capital ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets minus amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital. Thus, when the capital conservation buffer is fully phased-in, minimum ratios will effectively be: 7% for Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% for Tier 1 capital, and 10.5% for total capital, with a 4% leverage ratio. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments  

Branch Bank’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Reform Act and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution vary according to the level of risk incurred in its activities. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a revised assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The new assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. The FDIC has published guidelines under the Reform Act on the adjustment of assessment rates for certain institutions. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Branch Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 

15 

Table of Contents  

CFPB 

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the CFPB, which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 

The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including mortgage origination disclosures, minimum underwriting standards and ability to repay, high-cost mortgage lending, and servicing practices. On August 9, 2012, the CFPB issued three NPRs covering loan origination and servicing requirements, which were finalized in January 2013, along with other rules on mortgages. The ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards rules, as well as the mortgage servicing rules, are scheduled to become effective in January 2014. The escrow and loan originator compensation rules are scheduled to become effective in June 2013. A final rule integrating disclosures required by the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act is expected later this year. BB&T continues to analyze the impact that such rules may have on its business. 

Interchange Fees 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB adopted rules effective October 1, 2011, establishing standards for assessing whether the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to electronic debit transactions are “reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by issuers for such transactions. Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are charges that merchants pay to BB&T and other credit card companies and card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Under the final rules, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. An additional 1 cent per transaction fraud prevention adjustment is available to those issuers that comply with certain standards outlined by the FRB. 

Privacy 

Federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions, including substantial customer privacy protections provided under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Branch Bank’s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” This assessment is reviewed for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a financial holding company, such as BB&T, also is assessed by the FRB in connection with any acquisition or merger application. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation  

The FRB and FDIC have enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. In 2009, the FRB amended its Regulation E to prohibit financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer   

16 

Table of Contents  

consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service and the consumer’s choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for “excessive or chronic” customer use and undertake “meaningful and effective” follow-up action with customers that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. 

Patriot Act  

The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting insured depository institutions, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the IMLAFA, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions’ operations. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations to implement the Patriot Act, which impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The obligations of financial institutions under the Patriot Act have increased and may continue to increase. The increase in obligations of financial institutions has resulted in increased costs for BB&T, which may continue to rise, and also may subject BB&T to additional liability. 

Other Regulatory Matters  

BB&T is subject to numerous examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA, the NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. BB&T has periodically received requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Employees  

At December 31, 2012, BB&T had approximately 34,000 full-time equivalent employees compared to approximately 31,800 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2011. 

Website Access to BB&T’s Filings with the SEC  

All of BB&T’s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website, www.BBT.com/Investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. BB&T’s SEC filings are also available through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 

Corporate Governance  

Information with respect to BB&T’s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on BB&T’s website, www.BBT.com, and includes: 

 ·Corporate Governance Guidelines 

 ·Corporate Board of Directors 

 ·Committees of the Corporate Board of Directors and Committee Charters 

 ·Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior Financial Officers and Employees 

 ·Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certifications 

 ·Executive Officers 

 ·Policy and Procedures for Accounting and Legal Complaints, including Whistleblower Procedures 

17 

Table of Contents  

BB&T intends to disclose any substantive amendments or waivers to the Codes of Ethics for Directors or Senior Financial Officers on BB&T’s website at www.BBT.com/Investor. 

Executive Officers of BB&T 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

18 

Table of Contents  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS