ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Executive Overview  

Significant accomplishments in 2012  

The Company’s more significant accomplishments during 2012 were: 

 ·Record net income available to common shareholders of $1.9 billion represented a 48.6% increase over the prior year 

 ·Strong growth in noninterest income was driven by record insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and brokerage commission revenues 

 ·Continued improvement in credit quality with NPAs, excluding covered foreclosed property, declining $914 million, or 37.3%. NPAs are now at their lowest level since June 30, 2008 

 ·Strong results from the FRB’s 2012 CCAR process, which resulted in a 25% increase to the quarterly dividend in 2012 and a 15% increase to the quarterly dividend in the first quarter of 2013. Highlights of the stress test results include: 

 oOne of the strongest Tier 1 common ratios (excluding capital issuances) among traditional banks 

 oLowest loan loss rate under the stress scenario among traditional banks 

 ·Total end of period loans held for investment increased 6.6% driven by growth in the residential mortgage, commercial and industrial, other lending subsidiaries and direct retail lending portfolios 

 ·Continued improvement in deposit mix and average cost, as evidenced by a 26.4% increase in noninterest-bearing deposits, and a 25 basis point reduction in the average cost of interest-bearing deposits, during 2012 

 ·Successful acquisition of Crump Insurance in April 2012 resulted in BB&T establishing a #1 market share in wholesale life and a #2 market share in wholesale property and casualty in U.S. markets 

 ·Successful acquisition of BankAtlantic in July 2012, which enhanced BB&T’s presence in the Southeast Florida market and resulted in a $3.5 billion increase in deposits 

Challenges  

BB&T’s business has become more dynamic and complex in recent years. Consequently, management has annually evaluated and, as necessary, adjusted the Company’s business strategy in the context of the current operating environment. During this process, management considers the current financial condition and performance of the Company and its expectations for future economic activity from both a national and local market perspective. The achievement of BB&T’s key strategic objectives and established long-term financial goals is subject to many uncertainties and challenges. In the opinion of management, the challenges that are most relevant and likely to have a near term impact on performance are presented below: 

 ·The impact of U.S. fiscal debt, budget and tax negotiations 

 ·Intense competition within the financial services industry 

 ·Cost and risk associated with the regulatory initiatives 

Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results  

Despite challenging market conditions throughout the year, BB&T produced record annual earnings for 2012. These results were driven by broad-based loan growth, improvements in deposit mix and cost, a significant increase in noninterest income, and a continued focus on controlling noninterest expense. In addition, BB&T continued to make significant progress towards reducing the level of NPAs, which had a beneficial impact on credit costs incurred during the year. 

30 

Table of Contents  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for 2012 totaled $1.9 billion, an increase of $627 million, or 48.6%, compared to $1.3 billion earned during 2011. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for 2012 were $2.70, compared to $1.83 for 2011. BB&T’s results of operations for 2012 produced a return on average assets of 1.14% and a return on average common shareholders’ equity of 10.35% compared to prior year ratios of 0.82% and 7.49%, respectively. 

BB&T’s revenues for 2012 were $9.8 billion on a FTE basis, up 12.1% compared to 2011. The increase in revenues was broad based, with $350 million of the increase attributable to higher net interest income and $707 million related to an increase in noninterest income. Net interest income on a FTE basis was up 6.2% compared to 2011, primarily the result of a 23.1% decrease in interest expense compared to 2011. Noninterest income increased 22.7% compared to 2011, largely the result of record insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and brokerage commission revenues. 

Credit costs continued to improve during 2012 as NPAs, excluding covered foreclosed property, declined $914 million, or 37.3%, compared to 2011. This decline included a $492 million decrease in NPLs and a $422 million decrease in foreclosed real estate and other property. Net charge-offs for 2012, excluding covered, were $1.3 billion, a decrease of $334 million, or 21.0%, compared to the prior year. BB&T recorded a $1.0 billion provision for credit losses in 2012, excluding covered, compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year. The ratio of the ALLL to net charge-offs excluding covered was 1.50x for 2012 compared to 1.32x in 2011. Foreclosed property expenses declined $536 million, or 66.8%, during 2012, reflecting the impact of a more aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property that was implemented during the fourth quarter of 2011. 

BB&T’s total assets at December 31, 2012 were $183.9 billion, an increase of $9.3 billion, or 5.3%, compared to December 31, 2011. The growth in total assets includes an increase of $7.2 billion in total loans and leases and $2.3 billion in the total securities portfolio. The growth in the loan and lease portfolio reflects broad-based growth, led by increases in the residential mortgage, commercial and industrial and direct retail lending portfolios. The increase in the total securities portfolio is primarily the result of purchases of investment securities that were made in the fourth quarter of 2012 in response to slowing loan growth forecasts. 

Total deposits at December 31, 2012 were $133.1 billion, an increase of $8.1 billion, or 6.5%, from December 31, 2011. The increase in deposits was led by noninterest-bearing deposits, which increased $6.8 billion, or 26.4%, and money market and savings accounts, which increased $3.3 billion, or 7.4%. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in certificates and other time deposits totaling $2.3 billion. These changes resulted in a substantial improvement to deposit mix, with noninterest-bearing accounts representing 24.4% of total deposits at December 31, 2012, compared to 20.6% at December 31, 2011. The cost of interest-bearing deposits for 2012 declined to 0.43%, a decline of 25 basis points from 0.68% for 2011. 

Total shareholders’ equity increased 21.4% compared to December 31, 2011. This increase was primarily driven by net proceeds of $2.1 billion of Tier 1 qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock during 2012 and net income retained after dividends declared. The Tier 1 common ratio was 9.3% at December 31, 2012, compared to 9.4% at December 31, 2011. In addition, the Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 11.0% and 13.9% at December 31, 2012, respectively. BB&T’s risk-based and tangible capital ratios remain well above regulatory standards for well-capitalized banks. As of December 31, 2012, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company. 

Reclassifications  

In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the 2012 presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T are in accordance with GAAP and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. The financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in the consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include those related to the ACL, determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit obligations associated with BB&T’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, and income taxes. Understanding BB&T’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding the consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T’s significant accounting policies  

31 

Table of Contents  

 and changes in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

The following is a summary of BB&T’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T’s Board of Directors on a periodic basis. 

ACL 

It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an ALLL and a RUFC that represent management’s best estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, expected cash flows on purchased loans, current assessment of problem loans and leases, the results of regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio. For TDRs, default expectations and estimated slower prepayment speeds that are specific to each of the restructured loan populations are incorporated in the determination of the ALLL. Also included in management’s estimates for loan and lease losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain. These events may include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries in which BB&T conducts business. The methodology used to determine an estimate for the RUFC is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the ALLL adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the ALLL and the RUFC is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

At December 31, 2012, the percentage of total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis was 17.3% and 0.9%, respectively, including securities available for sale, trading securities, derivatives, LHFS, residential MSRs and private equity investments. The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for similar instruments. At December 31, 2012, 6.3% of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis, or 1.1% of total assets, were based on significant unobservable inputs. See Note 18 “Fair Value Disclosures” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments. 

Securities 

BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determining the fair value of its available for sale and trading securities. Fair value measurements are derived from market-based pricing matrices that were developed using observable inputs that include benchmark yields, benchmark securities, reported trades, offers, bids, issuer spreads and broker quotes. Management performs various procedures to evaluate the accuracy of the fair values provided by the third-party service. These procedures, which are performed independent of the responsible LOB, include comparison of pricing information received from the third party pricing service to other third party pricing sources, review of additional information provided by the third party pricing service and other third party sources for selected securities, and back-testing to compare the price realized on any security sales to the daily pricing information received from the third party pricing service. The IPV committee, which provides oversight to BB&T’s enterprise-wide IPV function, is responsible for oversight of the comparison of pricing information received from the third party pricing service to other third party pricing sources, approving tolerance limits determined by IPV for price comparison exceptions, reviewing significant changes to pricing and valuation policies, and reviewing and approving the pricing decisions made on any illiquid and hard-to-price securities. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management. As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had approximately $994 million of available for sale securities, which is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable inputs, the majority of which were non-agency RMBS securities that are covered by a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC. 

BB&T periodically reviews available-for-sale securities with an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. The purpose of the review is to consider the length of time and the extent to which the market value of a security has been below its amortized cost. The primary factors BB&T considers in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary are long-term expectations and recent experience regarding principal and interest payments, and BB&T’s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell those securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis. 

32 

Table of Contents  

MSRs 

BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and related MSRs. BB&T has two classes of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. Residential MSRs are primarily carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions of its residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using an OAS valuation model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. 

Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to industry surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience and, when available, observable market data. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried at the lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset amortization is based on actual results and updated projections. Refer to Note 7 “Loan Servicing” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs. 

LHFS 

BB&T originates certain mortgage loans for sale to investors that are carried at fair value. The fair value is primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of mortgage banking income, while the related origination costs are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. The changes in fair value of these assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the economic effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans. 

Derivative Assets and Liabilities  

BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable data. BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee. 

Private Equity and Similar Investments  

BB&T has private equity and similar investments that are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had $323 million of these investments, which represented less than 1% of total assets. 

Intangible Assets  

BB&T’s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at their fair values, which often involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, all of which are inherently subjective. The amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. 

33 

Table of Contents  

Acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair values of the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of BB&T’s impairment testing process. Management considers the sensitivity of the significant assumptions in its impairment analysis including consideration of a 10% change in estimated future cash flows or the discount rate for each reporting unit. 

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  

BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees. Calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves. These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond price and yield data collected as of the plan’s measurement date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty years. Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, apportioned into distinct maturity groups. For durations where no bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships from observable data in similar markets. These indices and hypothetical curves give only an indication of the appropriate discount rate because the cash flows of the bonds comprising the indices and curves do not match the projected benefit payment stream of the plan precisely. For this reason, BB&T also considers the individual characteristics of the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate. Management evaluated the sensitivity changes that the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension expense for 2013. A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in additional pension expense of approximately $19 million for 2013. Based on the balance of plan assets on December 31, 2012, a decrease of one percent in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $30 million in pension expense for 2013. Refer to Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for disclosures related to BB&T’s benefit plans. 

Income Taxes  

The calculation of BB&T’s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the Company’s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation. For tax positions that are uncertain in nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. For tax positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company’s overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary. 

Analysis of Results of Operations  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.9 billion for 2012, which generated basic EPS of $2.74 and diluted EPS of $2.70. Net income available to common shareholders for 2011 and 2010 was $1.3 billion and $816 million, respectively. Basic EPS was $1.85 in 2011 and $1.18 in 2010, while diluted EPS was $1.83 and $1.16 for 2011 and 2010, respectively. 

Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability are return on average assets (net income as a percentage of average total assets) and return on average common shareholders’ equity (net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders’ equity). BB&T’s returns on average assets were 1.14%, 0.82%, and 0.54% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The returns on average common shareholders’ equity were 10.35%, 7.49%, and 4.85% for the last three years. 

Net Interest Income and NIM 

Net interest income is BB&T’s primary source of revenue. Net interest income is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earned and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of funds (with a FTE adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comparability with taxable items) is measured by the NIM. 

34 

Table of Contents  

2012 compared to 2011 

For 2012, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $6.0 billion, compared with $5.7 billion in 2011. Net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis increased 6.2% in 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in net interest income was primarily driven by lower funding costs, which declined $319 million compared to 2011. The improvement in funding costs reflects a 25 basis point reduction in the average cost of interest-bearing deposits for 2012 compared to the prior year and the 2012 redemption of all junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts. Net interest income also benefited from the growth in average earning assets, which more than offset the negative impact of lower yields on new loans. 

The FTE-adjusted NIM is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted NIM was 3.91% in 2012 compared with 4.06% in 2011. The decline in the NIM primarily reflects the runoff of higher yielding covered loans and lower yields on new loans, partially offset by the lower funding costs described above. 

Management expects NIM to be in the mid 3.70s% range in the first quarter of 2013 as a result of lower rates on new earning assets and the runoff of covered loans, partially offset by lower funding costs and improved asset mix. Deposit costs are expected to continue to trend lower in 2013, which would benefit net interest income. 

The FTE yield on the total securities portfolio was 2.64% for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 2.67% for the prior year. The decrease reflects a higher volume of lower yielding RMBS securities issued by GSEs. 

The average annualized FTE yield for 2012 for the total loan portfolio was 5.35% compared to 5.87% for the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to the runoff of higher yielding covered loans and a higher volume of new loans originated at lower rates. 

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 0.43% during 2012, from 0.68% in 2011. This improvement was a result of lower rates on interest-bearing deposits, including a 56 basis point reduction in the cost of certificates and other time deposits and a 13 basis point reduction in the cost of money market and savings accounts. 

The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 0.27% in 2011 to 0.26% during 2012. At December 31, 2012, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.25%. The average rate on long-term debt during 2012 was 3.02%, a decrease of 38 basis points compared to the prior year. This reduction was primarily due to the redemption of all higher cost junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts during 2012 and the related benefit associated with accelerated amortization of derivatives that were unwound in a gain position. 

2011 compared to 2010 

For 2011, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $5.7 billion, compared with $5.5 billion in 2010. Net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis increased 3.6% in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net interest income was driven by lower funding costs, which declined $418 million compared to 2010. The improvement in funding costs reflects a more favorable mix of funding liabilities, benefits from the accelerated amortization of derivatives that were unwound in a gain position and decreases in rates paid on deposits. The improvement in funding costs more than offset lower yields on new loans and securities. In addition, net interest income was higher due to better performance from loans and securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition as cash flow expectations improved from the prior estimates. 

The FTE-adjusted NIM is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted NIM was 4.06% in 2011 compared with 4.03% in 2010. This improvement primarily reflects the higher yields on covered loans and securities and lower funding costs. 

The FTE yield on the total securities portfolio was 2.67% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 3.89% for the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of management’s efforts to deleverage and de-risk the portfolio during 2010. The securities purchased included floating rate and other securities with lower yields. The yield on the securities portfolio benefited from higher yields on covered securities due to the impact of duration adjustments in the prior year. 

The average annualized FTE yield for 2011 for the total loan portfolio was 5.87% compared to 5.88% for the prior year. The slight decrease was primarily due to new loan volumes originated at lower rates, partially offset by the acquired loans from the Colonial transaction, which have produced higher yields due to better than expected performance. 

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 0.68% during 2011, from 1.05% in 2010. The decline was a result of the decrease in relatively higher-rate CDs and management’s ability to lower rates on other deposit products. 

35 

Table of Contents  

The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 0.28% in 2010 to 0.27% during 2011. At December 31, 2011, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.25%. The average rate on long-term debt during 2011 was 3.40%, a decrease of 56 basis points compared to the prior year. This reduction was due to new issuances at lower rates and the positive impact of accelerated amortization from certain derivatives that were unwound in a gain position. 

Covered Assets and FDIC Loss Share Receivable 

In connection with the Colonial acquisition, Branch Bank entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that outline the terms and conditions under which the FDIC will reimburse Branch Bank for a portion of the losses incurred on certain loans, OREO, certain investment securities and other assets (collectively, “covered assets”). The FDIC’s obligation to reimburse Branch Bank for losses with respect to covered assets begins with the first dollar of loss incurred. The loss sharing agreement applicable to single family residential mortgage loans expires in 2019. The loss sharing agreement applicable to commercial loans and other covered assets expires in 2014; however, Branch Bank must reimburse the FDIC for gains and recoveries through August 2017. The terms of the loss sharing agreement with respect to certain non-agency RMBS provides that Branch Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any and all losses. For other covered assets, the FDIC will reimburse Branch Bank for (1) 80% of losses incurred up to $5 billion and (2) 95% of losses in excess of $5 billion. Gains and recoveries on covered assets will offset losses, or be paid to the FDIC, at the applicable loss share percentage at the time of recovery. At the conclusion of the loss share period should actual aggregate losses, excluding securities, be less than an amount determined in accordance with these agreements, BB&T will pay the FDIC a portion of the difference. The fair value of the net reimbursement the Company expected to receive from the FDIC under those agreements was recorded as the FDIC loss share receivable at the date of acquisition. The fair value of the FDIC loss share receivable was estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. 

Acquired loans were aggregated into separate pools based upon common risk characteristics. Each pool is considered a unit of account and the cash flows expected to be collected, credit losses and other relevant information are developed for each pool. A summary of the accounting treatment related to changes in credit losses on each loan pool and the related FDIC loss share asset follows. 

 ·If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is increased: 

 oThe reduction in the net present value of the loan pool is recognized immediately as provision expense and an increase to the ALLL. 

 oThe FDIC loss share asset is increased by 80% of the adjustment to the allowance through income. 

 ·If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is reduced: 

 oIf the loan pool has an allowance, the allowance is first reduced to $0 (and 80% of this reduction decreases the FDIC loss share asset) through income. 

 oIf the loan pool does not have an allowance (or it is first reduced to $0 and there remains additional expected cash flows), the excess of expected cash flows is recognized as a yield adjustment over the remaining expected life of the loan. 

 oThe decrease in expected reimbursement from the FDIC is recognized in income prospectively using a level yield methodology over the remaining life of the loss share agreements. 

 oThe increase in the amount expected to be paid to the FDIC as a result of the aggregate loss calculation is recognized prospectively using a level yield methodology over the remaining life of the loss share agreements. 

The accounting treatment for covered securities is summarized below: 

 ·The discount established at acquisition is accreted over the expected life of the underlying securities using a level yield methodology. 

 ·Changes to the expected life of the securities are recognized with a cumulative adjustment to the accretion recognized. 

 ·OTTI is determined using the same methodology as non-covered securities. 

36 

Table of Contents  

·The income statement effect of the above items is offset by the applicable loss share percentage in FDIC loss share income, net. 

The following table provides the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the components of the FDIC loss share receivable. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in the carrying amount attributable to covered loans was due to the receipt of cash from the FDIC and the negative accretion due to the credit loss improvement partially reduced by the offset to the provision for covered loans. The change in the carrying amount attributable to covered securities was due to the offsets to the accretion of the discount and the amount of the increase in fair value of covered securities. The change in the carrying amount attributable to the aggregate loss calculation is primarily due to accretion of the expected payment, which is included in the “Accretion due to credit loss improvement” below. The fair values were based upon a discounted cash flow methodology that was consistent with the acquisition date methodology. The fair value attributable to covered loans and the aggregate loss calculation changes over time due to the receipt of cash from the FDIC, updated credit loss assumptions and the passage of time. The fair value attributable to covered securities was based upon the timing and amount that would be payable to the FDIC should they settle at the current fair value at the conclusion of the loss share agreement. 

The following table provides information related to the income statement impact of covered loans and securities and the FDIC loss sharing asset recognized in the Colonial acquisition. The table excludes all amounts related to other assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2012 compared to 2011 

Interest income for 2012 on covered loans and securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition decreased $284 million compared to 2011, primarily due to lower average covered loan balances. The yield on covered loans for 2012 was 18.91% compared to 19.15% in 2011. At December 31, 2012, the accretable yield balance on covered loans was $881 million. Accretable yield represents the excess of expected future cash flows above the current net carrying amount of loans and will be recognized in income over the remaining life of the covered loans. 

37 

Table of Contents  

During 2012, BB&T reduced the accretable yield balance on covered loans by $72 million primarily due to changes in the expected lives of the underlying loans. During 2011, BB&T reclassified $379 million from the nonaccretable balance to accretable yield on covered loans. This reclassification was primarily the result of increased cash flow estimates resulting from improved loss expectations. These adjustments are recognized on a prospective basis over the remaining lives of the loan pools. 

The provision for covered loans was $13 million in 2012, a decrease of $58 million compared to 2011. This decrease resulted from the quarterly reassessment process. 

FDIC loss share income, net was $29 million worse than 2011 primarily due to a lower offset to the provision for covered loans. 

2011 compared to 2010 

Interest income for 2011 on covered loans and securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition increased $146 million compared to 2010, which was offset by a decrease in FDIC loss share income. The majority of the increase is related to loans and reflects higher expected cash flows based on the quarterly cash flow reassessment process. The yield on covered loans for 2011 was 19.15% compared to 13.22% in 2010. At December 31, 2011, the accretable yield balance on these loans was $1.7 billion. Accretable yield represents the excess of future cash flows above the current net carrying amount of loans and will be recognized into income over the remaining life of the covered and acquired loans. The increase in interest income on securities compared to the prior year was primarily a result of security duration adjustments in the prior year, which is offset in FDIC loss share income. 

During 2011 and 2010, BB&T reclassified $379 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, from the nonaccretable balance to accretable yield on covered loans. These reclassifications were primarily the result of increased cash flow estimates resulting from improved loss expectations. These amounts are recognized as prospective yield adjustments and result in increased interest income over the remaining lives of the loan pools. 

The provision for covered loans was $71 million in 2011, a decrease of $73 million compared to 2010. The provision expenses recorded during 2011 and 2010 resulted from the quarterly reassessment process, which showed decreases in expected cash flows in certain loan pools that were partially offset by recoveries in other previously impaired loan pools. 

FDIC loss share income, net decreased $173 million compared to 2010 primarily due to the impact of cash flow reassessments that generated additional interest income and a reduction of amounts due from the FDIC as a result of decreased loss projections on covered loans. 

FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis 

The following table sets forth the major components of net interest income and the related yields and rates for 2012, 2011 and 2010, as well as the variances between the periods caused by changes in interest rates versus changes in volumes. Changes attributable to the mix of assets and liabilities have been allocated proportionally between the changes due to rate and the changes due to volume. 

38 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

39 

Table of Contents  

Provision for Credit Losses 

2012 compared to 2011 

The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2012 was $1.1 billion, a decrease of $133 million, or 11.2%, compared to the prior year. Included in the provision for credit losses during 2012 was $13 million related to covered loans. The decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to improving credit trends and outlook, as net charge-offs in 2012 decreased 22.0% compared to the prior year. Improving credit conditions also resulted in an increase in the ratio of the ALLL to net charge-offs, which increased to 1.56 for 2012, compared to 1.36 for 2011. 

Net charge-offs were 1.14% of average loans and leases (or 1.15% excluding covered loans) for 2012 compared to 1.57% of average loans and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered loans) during 2011. Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million related to the transfer and sale of residential mortgage loans in the second quarter. Excluding the charge-off related to this transfer, net charge-offs were 1.50% of average loans and leases for 2011. The largest decreases in the provision for credit losses for 2012 were in the residential mortgage and CRE - ADC portfolios. 

2011 compared to 2010 

The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2011 was $1.2 billion compared with $2.6 billion in 2010, which represents a decrease of 54.9% during 2011. Included in the provision for credit losses during 2011 was $71 million related to covered loans. The provision for credit losses recorded for covered loans reflects lower expected cash flows on certain loan pools compared to the original estimates. Approximately 80% of this provision for credit losses is offset through a credit to noninterest income based on the provisions of the FDIC loss sharing agreements. The decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to improving credit trends and outlook, as net charge-offs in 2011 decreased 34.3% compared to 2010. 

Net charge-offs were 1.57% of average loans and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered loans) for 2011 compared to 2.41% of average loans and leases (or 2.59% excluding covered loans) during 2010. Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million related to the transfer and sale of residential mortgage loans in the second quarter. This compares to $605 million of net charge-offs recorded in 2010 related to commercial and residential mortgage loans that were transferred to the held for sale portfolio. Excluding these items, net charge-offs were 1.50% and 1.97% of average loans and leases for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The largest decreases in the provision for credit losses for 2011 were in the commercial and residential mortgage portfolios. 

Noninterest Income  

Noninterest income is a significant contributor to BB&T’s financial results. Noninterest income includes insurance income, service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on securities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from other activities. Management continues to focus on diversifying its sources of revenue to further reduce BB&T’s reliance on traditional spread-based interest income, as fee-based activities are a relatively stable revenue source during periods of changing interest rates. 

40 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2012 compared to 2011 

Noninterest income was $3.8 billion for 2012, up 22.7% compared to 2011. This increase was driven by record income generated by BB&T’s insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and brokerage lines of business. In addition, bankcard fees and merchant discounts and other income increased compared to the prior year. These increases were partially offset by lower checkcard fees, a decrease in income related to the FDIC loss share receivable and a reduction in net securities income. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations include the impact of acquisitions. 

Income from BB&T’s insurance agency/brokerage operations was the largest source of noninterest income in 2012. Insurance income was up 30.2% compared to 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of Crump Insurance on April 2, 2012, which added approximately $234 million in revenues during 2012. The remainder of the increase in insurance income is attributable to the impact of other acquisitions that closed during the fourth quarter of 2011 and firming market conditions. 

Mortgage banking income totaled $840 million in 2012 compared to $436 million in 2011. The increase in mortgage banking income was primarily due to an increase in residential mortgage production revenues totaling $378 million, which was driven by higher gains on residential mortgage production and sales. Included in mortgage banking income for 2012 is a negative valuation adjustment of $32 million related to changes in assumptions for residential MSRs that are carried at fair value. Approximately $22 million of the decline in the valuation of the residential MSRs was due to a revision in the servicing cost assumption based on an expectation of higher costs that continue to impact the industry. The remainder of the net decrease is primarily due to the impact of an increase in OAS assumption changes partially offset by prepayment speed changes, which are reflective of the current MSR market. This decrease was more than offset by gains of $128 million from derivative financial instruments used to manage the economic risk.  

Service charges on deposit accounts, which totaled $566 million in 2012, represent BB&T’s third largest category of noninterest revenue. Service charge revenues were essentially flat compared to the prior year, reflecting the impact of pricing changes for routine services related to retail and commercial transaction deposit products, such as monthly maintenance fees and commercial transaction deposit products, implemented in 2011 that were designed to offset a reduction in service charges that occurred in 2010 as a result of a change in overdraft policies. 

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased $32 million, or 9.6%, compared to 2011. This increase was largely driven by a higher level of investment banking activities and higher brokerage fees and commissions. Checkcard fees decreased $86 million, or 31.7%, due to the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented on October 1, 2011 and limited the rate banks could assess for debit card transactions. Bankcard fees and merchant discounts increased $32 million in 2012, primarily the result of higher volumes for both retail and commercial bankcard activities. 

FDIC loss share income reflects accretion of the FDIC receivable due to credit loss improvement (including expense associated with the aggregate loss calculation) and accretion related to covered securities, partially reduced by the offset to 

41 

Table of Contents  

the provision for covered loans. Covered loans have experienced better performance than originally anticipated, which has resulted in the recognition of additional interest income on a level yield basis over the expected life of the corresponding loans. A significant portion of this increase in interest income is offset by a reduction in noninterest income recorded in FDIC loss share income. For 2012, noninterest income was reduced by $271 million related to improvement in loan performance, compared to a reduction of $297 million in 2011. These decreases in income were partially offset by increases of $11 million and $57 million, respectively, which reflected 80% of the provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans for 2012 and 2011. 

BB&T recognized $12 million in net securities losses during 2012, compared to $62 million of net securities gains in 2011. The net securities losses during 2012 included $9 million of OTTI charges and $3 million of net losses realized from securities sales. The net securities gains during 2011 included $174 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $112 million of OTTI charges. The OTTI charges recognized during 2011 were due to weaker actual and forecasted collateral performance for non-agency RMBS. Refer to the “Analysis of Financial Condition – Investment Activities” section for a detailed discussion of strategies executed during the years presented. 

Other income increased $105 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to $149 million of losses and write-downs recorded in 2011 related to the sale of commercial NPLs. This increase was partially offset by $42 million of increased write-downs on affordable housing investments in 2012 due to revised estimates and processes used to value these investments. 

2011 compared to 2010 

Noninterest income was $3.1 billion for 2011, down 21.3% compared to 2010. The decline in noninterest revenue was due to fewer securities gains, lower income related to the FDIC loss share receivable, lower service charges on deposit accounts and lower mortgage banking revenues, while bankcard fees and merchant discounts and trust and investment advisory revenues grew compared to the prior year. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations include the impact of acquisitions. 

Insurance income was up slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, as pricing for premiums remained soft throughout the year. 

Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $563 million in 2011, a decline of $55 million, or 8.9%, compared to 2010. The decrease in 2011 was largely a result of a decline in overdraft fees as a result of mid-2010 changes to BB&T’s overdraft policies that were partially in response to new regulation. In 2011, management implemented pricing changes for routine services related to retail and commercial transaction deposit products, such as monthly maintenance fees and check enclosure fees, which partially offset the reduction in overdraft fees. 

Mortgage banking income totaled $436 million in 2011 compared to $521 million in 2010, a decrease of $85 million. This decrease was primarily due to a decline of $97 million in residential mortgage production revenues due to lower volumes and pricing in 2011 and the decision in the third quarter of 2010 to retain a portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production. This decline was partially offset by higher servicing revenues as a result of growth in the servicing portfolio and higher revenues from commercial mortgage banking revenues. Included in mortgage banking income for 2011 is a negative valuation adjustment of $341 million related to changes in assumptions for residential MSRs that are carried at fair value. This was more than offset by gains of $394 million from derivative financial instruments used to manage the economic risk. Approximately $284 million of the decline in the valuation of the residential MSRs was due to increases in the prepayment speed assumption as a result of a decrease in interest rates. During 2011, management also revised its servicing cost assumption based on changes to regulations and industry standards that impact the mortgage servicing industry. The change in the servicing cost assumption resulted in a decline of approximately $30 million in the valuation of the mortgage servicing asset. 

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions decreased $19 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2010. This decrease was largely due to weaker market conditions during the year and a record fourth quarter in 2010. 

Checkcard fees decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, due to the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act. The decrease resulting from the implementation was more than offset by higher volumes during the year. 

Bankcard fees and merchant discounts increased $27 million in 2011. The increased bankcard fees were the result of higher volumes for both retail and commercial bankcard activities. 

Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets managed, which is affected by stock market conditions. In 2011, trust and investment advisory revenues increased $14 million, or 8.8%, due to improved market conditions. 

42 

Table of Contents  

FDIC loss share income reflects the offset to the provision for covered loans, accretion of the FDIC receivable due to credit loss improvement and accretion related to covered securities. During 2011 and 2010, covered loans experienced better performance than originally anticipated resulting in additional interest income. A significant portion of the increases in interest income for 2011 and 2010 was offset by reductions in noninterest income. For 2011 and 2010, noninterest income was reduced by $297 million and $203 million, respectively, related to improvement in loan performance. These decreases in income were partially offset by increases of $57 million and $115 million, respectively, which reflected 80% of the provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans for 2011 and 2010. 

BB&T recognized $62 million in net securities gains during 2011. The net securities gains during 2011 included $174 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $112 million of OTTI charges. The OTTI charges recognized during 2011 are due to weaker actual and forecasted collateral performance for non-agency RMBS. BB&T recognized $554 million in net securities gains during 2010. The net securities gains recognized in 2010 included $585 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $31 million of losses as a result of OTTI charges. The large decrease in securities gains during 2011 compared to 2010 reflects the results of the balance sheet deleveraging strategy that was executed during the second quarter of 2010 and the de-risking of the investment portfolio that began during the third quarter of 2010 and was completed in the fourth quarter. Refer to the “Analysis of Financial Condition – Investment Activities” section for a detailed discussion of strategies executed during the years presented. 

Other income decreased $60 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to losses and write-downs on commercial loans that were transferred to the LHFS portfolio in 2010 in connection with management’s NPL disposition strategy. There was a total of $149 million of losses and write-downs recorded in 2011 compared to $90 million in 2010. 

Noninterest Expense  

The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T’s noninterest expense: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2012 compared to 2011 

Personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest expense and includes salaries, wages and incentives, as well as pension and other employee benefit costs. Total personnel expense increased 14.6% during 2012, primarily the result of the Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions during 2012. Other factors contributing to this increase include normal salary increases, higher production-related incentives and commissions and other performance incentives, and higher pension expense related to certain changes in actuarial assumptions. Additional disclosures relating to BB&T’s benefit plans can be found in Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

Occupancy and equipment expense increased $34 million, or 5.5%, compared to 2011 primarily due to the acquisitions of Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic. 

Loan-related expense totaled $283 million, an increase of $56 million compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of higher investor-owned loan expense and provisions for higher mortgage repurchase reserves. 

43 

Table of Contents  

Foreclosed property expenses include the gain or loss on sale of foreclosed property, valuation adjustments resulting from updated appraisals, and the ongoing expense of maintaining foreclosed properties. Foreclosed property expense decreased $536 million, or 66.8% in 2012, primarily reflecting the impact of a more aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property that was undertaken in the fourth quarter of 2011. 

Regulatory charges decreased $53 million in 2012 due to improved credit quality, which led to lower deposit insurance premiums. 

Merger-related and restructuring charges increased $52 million compared to the prior year as a result of the Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions. 

Other expense increased $62 million compared to 2011, primarily the result of higher advertising expenses, an increase in depreciation expense related to assets under operating leases to customers driven by growth in BB&T’s equipment financing business, higher operating charge-offs in 2012 and increased referral fee expense. The remaining noninterest expenses increased a net $13 million, or 3.3%, compared to 2011. Refer to Table 10 for additional detail on fluctuations in other categories of noninterest expense. 

Management currently expects that total noninterest expense should decline in the range of 1% to 2% in 2013 compared with 2012, largely driven by lower credit-related expenses. 

2011 compared to 2010 

Personnel expense increased $111 million, or 4.2%, during 2011 compared to 2010. This increase included an additional $90 million for salaries and wages due to customary salary increases and higher incentive expense resulting from improved performance and production-related businesses. The increase also included higher pension and employee benefits expense of $21 million. 

Foreclosed property expense totaled $802 million in 2011, an increase of $55 million compared to 2010. This increase was largely due to an increase of $78 million for losses and write-downs, partially offset by a decrease of $23 million for maintenance and repair costs. Included in the losses and write-downs for 2011 was a $220 million liquidity valuation adjustment in the fourth quarter related to management’s decision to implement a more aggressive shorter period disposition strategy for foreclosed properties. The carrying value of BB&T’s inventory of foreclosed property decreased $723 million, or 57.4%, during 2011. This decline reflects management’s more aggressive efforts to liquidate properties and fewer inflows. 

Loan-related expense totaled $227 million, an increase of $26 million compared to 2010. This increase includes a $12 million increase for losses related to repurchase reserves on BB&T’s investor owned servicing portfolio. 

The remaining noninterest expenses decreased a net $60 million, or 2.8%, compared to 2010. This decrease includes lower merger-related and restructuring charges, as 2010 included charges related to the Colonial acquisition and systems conversion. In addition, amortization of intangibles declined by $23 million, as intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis. Noninterest expense for 2011 also includes a $16 million loss from the sale of leveraged leases and an $11 million charge for an increase to the indemnification reserve related to the 2008 sale of Visa stock. These increases were partially offset by $19 million in lower advertising and other marketing expenses. 

Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

BB&T recorded certain merger-related and restructuring charges during the years 2012, 2011 and 2010. These charges are reflected in BB&T’s Consolidated Statements of Income as a category of noninterest expense. 

Merger-related and restructuring expenses or credits include: severance and personnel-related costs or credits, which typically occur in corporate support and data processing functions; occupancy and equipment charges or credits, which relate to costs or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipment write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment; and other merger-related and restructuring charges or credits, which include expenses necessary to convert and combine the acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply inventory write-offs, investment banking advisory fees and other similar charges. 

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were $11 million and $20 million, respectively, of merger-related and restructuring accruals. Merger-related and restructuring accruals are established when the costs are incurred or once all requirements for a plan to dispose of certain business functions have been approved by management. In general, a major portion of accrued costs are utilized in conjunction with or immediately following the systems conversion, when most of the duplicate positions are eliminated and the terminated employees begin to receive severance. Other accruals are utilized over time based on the sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or the expiration of lease contracts. Merger and restructuring 

44 

Table of Contents  

accruals are re-evaluated periodically and adjusted as necessary. The remaining accruals at December 31, 2012 are generally expected to be utilized during 2013, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years. 

Provision for Income Taxes  

BB&T’s provision for income taxes totaled $764 million, $296 million and $115 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. BB&T’s effective tax rates for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 were 27.4%, 18.2% and 11.9%, respectively. The increases in the effective tax rate for 2012 compared to 2011, and 2011 compared to 2010, reflect higher levels of pre-tax earnings relative to permanent income tax differences. 

BB&T has extended credit to and invested in the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments, together with certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment, have reduced BB&T’s overall effective tax rate from the statutory rate in all periods presented. 

Management currently expects the effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2013 to be similar to the effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2012. 

Refer to Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate and a discussion of uncertain tax positions and other tax matters. 

Segment Results  

BB&T’s operations are divided into six reportable business segments: Community Banking, Residential Mortgage Banking, Dealer Financial Services, Specialized Lending, Insurance Services and Financial Services. These segments have been identified based on BB&T’s organizational structure. See Note 21 “Operating Segments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s operating segments, the internal accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments. 

Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the “Noninterest Income” and “Noninterest Expense” sections above. 

2012 compared to 2011 

Community Banking  

Community Banking had a network of 1,832 banking offices at the end of 2012, an increase of 53 offices compared to December 31, 2011. The increase in offices was driven by the BankAtlantic acquisition and de novo branch openings, partially offset by the closing of low volume branches. Community Banking results include BankAtlantic since the systems conversion in October 2012. Community Banking net income was $752 million in 2012, up $216 million, or 40.3%, compared to 2011. 

Segment net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.4 billion in 2012 compared to $3.6 billion in 2011. The decrease in segment net interest income was primarily attributable to lower funding credits on deposits as the result of declining interest rates. This decrease was partially offset by loan growth and improvement in the deposit mix, which was the result of an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits and a decrease in client CDs. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased by $77 million, or 13.1%, to $666 million in 2012, primarily due to loan growth and reserve rate adjustments, partially offset by lower charge-offs. 

Noninterest income in Community Banking increased $109 million, or 10.7%, to $1.1 billion in 2012, primarily due to higher bankcard and merchant fees, as well as losses on commercial LHFS in the prior year. The increase in noninterest income was partially offset by lower debit interchange and overdraft fees. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reported as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), increased by $50 million, or 37.9% in 2012, driven by higher referrals for residential mortgage lending as originations grew. 

Noninterest expense incurred by Community Banking during 2012 declined $526 million, or 22.3%, to $1.8 billion. This decline was primarily due to lower foreclosed property expense and regulatory charges, partially offset by higher net occupancy expense and personnel expense. Allocated corporate expense increased $126 million, or 14.0%, to $1.0 billion in 2012, primarily due to increases in loan administration, operations and marketing expense. 

45 

Table of Contents  

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $33.1 billion in 2012, up $9.4 billion, or 39.9%, compared to 2011. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes both retained loans and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $101.3 billion at the end of 2012, an increase of 10.5%, compared to $91.6 billion at December 31, 2011. Residential Mortgage Banking net income was $366 million in 2012, compared to a net loss of $15 million in 2011. 

Segment net interest income in Residential Mortgage Banking increased $81 million, or 27.8%, to $372 million in 2012. The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to growth in LHFS, growth in loans held for investment and higher spreads to funding costs on loans held for investment. These increases in segment net interest income were partially offset by lower spreads to funding costs on LHFS. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $95 million for 2012, down $225 million, or 70.3%, compared to $320 million in 2011. The decrease in provision expense reflects improved credit quality in the loan portfolio, as well as the sale of NPLs in the second quarter of 2011, which resulted in higher charge-offs. Net charge-offs of $133 million were recorded in 2012 compared to $264 million in 2011. 

Noninterest income in Residential Mortgage Banking increased from $349 million in 2011 to $753 million in 2012. This increase was primarily due to higher mortgage loan production and sales and higher margins than in the prior year. 

Noninterest expense increased $92 million, or 31.1%, to $388 million in 2012, reflecting higher loan-related and personnel expenses. The increase in loan-related expense was driven by an increase in the loan repurchase reserve. The increase in personnel expense was driven by a higher number of employees and incentives related to the increased production. 

Dealer Financial Services  

Dealer Financial Services net income was $208 million in 2012, a decrease of $1 million, or 0.5%, compared to 2011. 

Segment net interest income in Dealer Financial Services increased $47 million, or 8.1%, to $629 million in 2012. The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to loan growth and an improved NIM in Regional Acceptance Corporation’s point-of-sale loan portfolio. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased $39 million, or 31.2%, in 2012, primarily due to increases in Regional Acceptance Corporation’s allowance for loan losses related to nonprime auto loans as delinquent accounts and NPAs move from historical lows to more normalized levels. 

Specialized Lending  

Specialized Lending net income was $235 million in 2012, flat compared to 2011. 

Specialized Lending net interest income increased $82 million, or 17.6%, to $547 million in 2012. This increase was primarily due to strong loan growth by Sheffield Financial as the result of dealer volume growth and expanded dealer relationships. Additionally, Mortgage Warehouse Lending benefited from increased market penetration, higher commitment levels and higher line usage, while Lendmark and Equipment Finance realized higher NIM. Average loans for Specialized Lending grew by $2.0 billion, or 15.6%, to $14.8 billion in 2012. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased $65 million, or 90.3%, in 2012. The increase in provision expense was primarily due to reserve rate adjustments, as well as adjustments to loss factors resulting from an acceleration of certain consumer loan charge-offs in the third quarter of 2012. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of Specialized Lending’s clients, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries. 

Noninterest income increased $17 million, or 8.1%, to $228 million in 2012. The increase in noninterest income was driven by higher operating lease income and gains on sale of finance lease equipment by Equipment Finance, as well as higher commercial finance and commercial mortgage banking fees. 

Noninterest expense increased $23 million, or 9.9%, to $256 million. The increase in noninterest expense was driven by higher depreciation on property leased to customers by Equipment Finance, higher loan referral fees paid by Sheffield Financial and higher personnel expense. 

46 

Table of Contents  

Insurance Services 

Insurance Services net income was $144 million in 2012, an increase of $43 million, or 42.6%, compared to 2011. The increase in net income was driven by acquisitions and improving premium pricing in the property and casualty insurance business. 

Noninterest income increased $325 million, or 31.3%, to $1.4 billion. The increase in noninterest income was primarily driven by higher life insurance, property and casualty insurance and employee benefits commissions. The life insurance and property and casualty operations of Crump Insurance, which was acquired on April 2, 2012, contributed $234 million of insurance income. Property and casualty insurance commission growth was partially attributable to improvement in premium pricing compared to the prior year. Employee benefits commission growth was primarily due to the acquisitions of Precept, a full-service employee benefits consulting and administrative solutions firm with offices in Irvine and San Ramon, California and Liberty Benefit Insurance Services, a full-service employee benefits broker located in San Jose, California, in the fourth quarter of 2011. 

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $229 million, or 29.1%, in 2012. The increase in noninterest expenses was primarily due to the Crump Insurance acquisition and related personnel expense, occupancy expense and amortization of intangibles. 

Financial Services  

Financial Services net income was $286 million in 2012, up $13 million, or 4.8%, compared to 2011. 

Segment net interest income for Financial Services increased $77 million, or 20.6%, to $451 million in 2012. The increase in segment net interest income during 2012 was primarily attributable to strong organic loan and deposit growth by Corporate Banking and BB&T Wealth, partially offset by a lower NIM for both businesses. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased $11 million to $10 million in 2012 as the result of reserve rate adjustments related to the commercial and industrial loan portfolio, combined with overall growth in the loan portfolio. 

Noninterest income for Financial Services increased $31 million, or 4.5%, to $725 million in 2012. The increase in noninterest income was primarily due to higher investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues and commercial loan fees. 

Noninterest expense incurred by Financial Services increased $67 million, or 11.7%, to $641 million in 2012, primarily due to higher personnel expense and intercompany expense. The increase in noninterest expense in 2012 was driven by continued efforts to expand the national lending teams in Corporate Banking and by the associated increases in incentive expenses tied to the strong income growth in the LOBs. 

Other, Treasury & Corporate 

Net income in Other, Treasury & Corporate can vary due to changing needs of the Company, including the size of the investment portfolio, the need for wholesale funding, income received from derivatives used to hedge the balance sheet and, in certain cases, income associated with acquisition activities. Other, Treasury & Corporate’s 2012 results reflect the income from BankAtlantic from the acquisition date to the systems conversion date in October 2012. Other, Treasury & Corporate generated net income of $37 million in 2012 compared to a net loss of $7 million in the prior year. 

The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to a decrease in FTP funding credits on deposits allocated to the Community Banking segment. The decrease in the allocated provision for loan losses was primarily the result of a decline in the provision for covered loans. The decrease in noninterest income was primarily due to higher securities gains in the prior year, increased write-downs on affordable housing investments and lower FDIC loss share income. The decrease in allocated corporate expenses was primarily due to changes in intersegment service center allocations. 

2011 compared to 2010 

Community Banking  

Community Banking had a network of 1,779 banking offices at the end of 2011, a decrease of 3 offices compared to 1,782 banking offices at December 31, 2010. The decrease in offices was the result of closing low volume branches partially offset by de novo branch openings. Net income attributable to Community Banking increased $460 million to $536 million in 2011. 

47 

Table of Contents  

Segment net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.6 billion in 2011 compared to $3.8 billion in 2010. The decline in segment net interest income was primarily the effect of a lower interest rate environment. The decline in segment net interest income was primarily attributable to lower funding credits on deposits as the result of declining interest rates, This decline was partially offset by improvements in the deposit mix, as the result of growth in noninterest checking balances and a decrease in client CD balances. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $1.2 billion, or 67.3%, to $589 million in 2011, reflecting lower charge-offs in the CRE loan portfolios associated with improved credit quality metrics and charge-offs associated with the accelerated disposition of commercial NPLs during 2011. 

Noninterest income in Community Banking decreased $184 million, or 15.3%, to $1.0 billion in 2011, primarily due to higher losses on commercial NPLs held for sale, lower overdraft fees and lower debit interchange fees. This decline in noninterest income was offset by increases in merchant discounts, deposit account service charges, account analysis fees and credit card interchange fees. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reported as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), declined by $14 million, or 9.6% in 2011, This decline was driven by lower referrals for residential mortgage lending as originations slowed. 

Noninterest expense for Community Banking declined $19 million in 2011, or 0.8%, to $2.4 billion compared to 2010. The decline was primarily due to lower regulatory charges and personnel expense, partially offset by higher foreclosed property expense. Allocated corporate expense increased $100 million, or 12.5%, to $899 million in 2011, primarily due to increases in loan administration expense, IT services and operations. 

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $23.7 billion in 2011, down $1.2 billion, or 4.8%, compared to 2010. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes both retained loans and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $91.6 billion at year end 2011, an increase of 9.8%, compared to $83.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Residential Mortgage Banking experienced a net loss of $15 million in 2011, compared to a net loss of $77 million in 2010. 

Segment net interest income for Residential Mortgage Banking totaled $291 million in 2011, up $31 million, or 11.9%, compared to 2010. The increase in segment net interest income in 2011 was primarily due to growth in the loans held for investment, as well as higher spreads compared to funding costs. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $320 million for 2011, down $233 million, or 42.1%, compared to $553 million in 2010. The decline in provision expense reflects improved credit quality in the loan portfolio. Net charge-offs of $87 million and $141 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, impacted by the sale of problem loans in connection with management’s NPL disposition strategy. 

Noninterest income in Residential Mortgage Banking declined $108 million, or 23.6%, to $349 million in 2011. This decrease was due to lower volumes and margins on loans originated for sale. Noninterest expense increased $42 million, or 16.5%, to $296 million compared to 2010, reflecting higher foreclosed property expense, as well as increased provision expense associated with loan repurchases. 

Dealer Financial Services  

Net income from Dealer Financial Services was $209 million in 2011, up $24 million, or 13.0%, over 2010. 

Segment net interest income for Dealer Financial Services increased by $68 million, or 13.2%, to $582 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to growth in the prime auto and marine and recreational vehicle loan portfolios, as well as an improved NIM in Regional Acceptance Corporation’s point-of-sale loan portfolio. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses of $125 million was up $32 million, or 34.4%, in 2011, primarily due to increases in Regional Acceptance Corporation’s allowance for loan losses related to nonprime auto loans as delinquent accounts and NPAs move from historical lows to more normalized levels. 

Specialized Lending  

Specialized Lending continued to expand during 2011 through strong organic growth. Net income was $235 million for 2011, up $67 million, or 39.9%, compared to 2010. 

48 

Table of Contents  

Segment net interest income totaled $465 million in 2011, an increase of $58 million, or 14.3%, compared to 2010. The growth in segment net interest income in 2011 was driven by strong loan growth in Sheffield Financial as the result of dealer volume growth and expanded dealer relationships, as well as higher NIM for Lendmark and Governmental Finance. Average loans for Specialized Lending grew by $1.3 billion, or 11.2%, to $12.8 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses totaled $72 million in 2011, a decrease of $38 million, or 34.5%, compared to 2010. The decline in the provision for 2011 was primarily attributable to generally improved credit performance across the lines of business. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of Specialized Lending’s clients, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries. 

Noninterest income totaled $211 million in 2011, an increase of $35 million, or 19.9%, compared to 2010. Noninterest income growth in 2011 was driven by Grandbridge, which achieved record commercial mortgage loan origination volume for delivery to the secondary market. 

Noninterest expense totaled $233 million in 2011, an increase of $15 million, or 6.9%, compared to 2010. The increase in noninterest expense was driven by personnel expenses related to growth in commercial mortgage lending activities. 

Insurance Services  

Net income from Insurance Services was $101 million in 2011, down $2 million, or 1.9%, compared to 2010. Insurance Services was impacted by the weak economy and soft insurance premium pricing, resulting in low commission revenue growth and pressure on brokerage operating margins. 

Noninterest income produced by Insurance Services totaled $1.0 billion during both 2011 and 2010. Revenue generated by acquisitions was offset by weaker pricing. 

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $12 million, or 1.6%, in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due to higher operating costs, including increased legal costs compared to 2010. 

Financial Services  

Net income from Financial Services increased by $39 million, or 16.7%, to $273 million in 2011, compared to 2010. 

Segment net interest income totaled $374 million in 2011, an increase of $60 million, or 19.1%, compared to 2010. The increase in segment net interest income during 2011 was attributable to strong organic loan and deposit growth in Corporate Banking, offset by a lower NIM. 

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $46 million, or 102.2%, to a $1 million benefit in 2011, reflecting lower reserve rates for commercial and industrial loans with the continued excellent credit quality performance. 

Noninterest income in Financial Services totaled $694 million in 2011, up $37 million, or 5.6%, compared to $657 million earned during 2010. This increase is primarily attributable to strong BB&T Capital Partners revenue growth related to maturing investments in its private equity and mezzanine funds. Additionally, Retirement and Institutional Services had strong noninterest income growth in 2011, with assets growing as the result of improved market conditions and business initiatives. 

Noninterest expense of $574 million incurred by Financial Services increased $47 million, or 8.9%, in 2011. The increase in noninterest expense in 2011 was impacted by the continued efforts to expand the sales force in Corporate Banking and BB&T Wealth. 

Other, Treasury & Corporate  

In 2011, the Other, Treasury & Corporate segment generated a $7 million net loss, compared to net income of $165 million for the prior year. The decrease in net income was primarily due to a $634 decrease in noninterest income, driven by securities gains recognized in 2010. The decrease in noninterest income was partially offset by a $197 million increase in segment net interest income, primarily due to a decrease in FTP funding credits on deposits allocated to the Community Banking segment. The overall decrease in FTP credits was partially offset by lower yields on the investment portfolio. In addition, the income tax benefit was $196 million higher than in the prior year. 

49 

Table of Contents  

Analysis of Financial Condition 

A review of the Company’s major balance sheet categories is presented below. 

Investment Activities  

BB&T’s investment activities are governed internally by a written, board-approved policy. The investment policy is carried out by the MRLCC, which meets regularly to review the economic environment and establish investment strategies. The MRLCC also has much broader responsibilities, which are discussed in the “Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. 

Investment strategies are reviewed by the MRLCC based on the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and anticipated loan demand, funding opportunities and the overall interest rate sensitivity of the Company. In general, the investment portfolio is managed in a manner appropriate to the attainment of the following goals: (i) to provide a sufficient margin of liquid assets to meet unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations and overall funds management objectives; (ii) to provide eligible securities to secure public funds, trust deposits as prescribed by law and other borrowings; and (iii) to earn the maximum return on funds invested that is commensurate with meeting the requirements of (i) and (ii). 

Branch Bank invests in securities as allowable under bank regulations. These securities may include obligations of the U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agencies, GSEs (including RMBS), bank eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision, non-agency RMBS, structured notes, bank eligible corporate obligations (including corporate debentures), commercial paper, negotiable CDs, bankers acceptances, mutual funds and limited types of equity securities. Branch Bank also may deal in securities subject to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. BB&T’s full-service brokerage and investment banking subsidiary engages in the underwriting, trading and sales of equity and debt securities subject to the risk management policies of the Company. 

The following table provides information regarding the composition of BB&T’s available-for-sale and held to maturity securities portfolio for the years presented: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The total securities portfolio increased $2.3 billion, or 6.4%, in 2012. This growth was primarily driven by purchases of investment securities in the fourth quarter of 2012 that were made in response to slowing loan growth forecasts. 

As of December 31, 2012, approximately 18.3% of the securities portfolio was variable rate. The effective duration of the securities portfolio was 2.8 years at December 31, 2012 compared to 3.3 years at the end of 2011. The duration of the securities portfolio excludes equity securities, auction rate securities, and certain covered non-agency RMBS. During the first quarter of 2011, BB&T reclassified approximately $8.3 billion from securities available for sale to securities held to maturity. Management determined that it has both the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. The reclassification of these securities was accounted for at fair value. Management transferred these securities to mitigate   

50 

Table of Contents  

possible negative impacts on its regulatory capital under the proposed Basel III capital guidelines. In addition, management purchased additional securities into the held-to-maturity portfolio based on its intent at the date of purchase. 

RMBS issued by GSEs were 78.0% of the total securities portfolio at year-end 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the available-for-sale securities portfolio also includes $1.6 billion of securities that were acquired from the FDIC as part of the Colonial acquisition. These securities are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements and include $1.3 billion of non-agency RMBS and $326 million of municipal securities. 

During 2012, management sold $306 million of securities that produced a realized loss of $3 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $9 million in charges for OTTI related to certain non-agency RMBS and covered securities. In 2011, primarily in connection with strengthening its liquidity under the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines, management purchased a total of $13.4 billion of GNMA RMBS. Management also sold approximately $4.0 billion of securities during 2011, which produced net securities gains of $174 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $112 million in charges for OTTI during 2011 related to BB&T’s portfolio of non-agency RMBS. The OTTI charges were the result of weaker actual and forecasted collateral performance for non-agency RMBS. 

In 2010, management executed two major strategies to strengthen the balance sheet. In the second quarter of 2010, management executed a deleveraging strategy to better position BB&T’s balance sheet for a rising rate environment and achieve a better mix of earning assets. In connection with this strategy, management reduced the balance sheet by approximately $8 billion through the sale of securities. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, management executed a strategy to further de-risk the available-for-sale securities portfolio. The de-risking strategy was aimed at further reducing the duration of the securities portfolio and reducing the risk of charges to OCI in a rising rate environment. Also to further protect against the risk of a rising rate environment, management replaced a portion of the securities sold with floating-rate securities. In addition, management sold approximately $400 million of non-agency RMBS to reduce the potential for future credit losses. These strategies were the primary driver in generating net securities gains during 2010. Primarily in connection with these strategies, BB&T sold a total of $31.3 billion in available-for-sale securities during 2010, which produced net securities gains of $585 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $31 million in charges for OTTI related to BB&T’s portfolio of non-agency RMBS. 

Refer to Note 2 “Securities” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s evaluation of securities for OTTI. 

The following table presents BB&T’s securities portfolio at December 31, 2012, segregated by major category with ranges of maturities and average yields disclosed. 

51 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Lending Activities  

The primary goal of the BB&T lending function is to help clients achieve their financial goals by providing quality loan products that are fair to the client and profitable to the Company. Management believes that this purpose can best be accomplished by building strong, profitable client relationships over time, with BB&T becoming an important contributor to the prosperity and well-being of its clients. In addition to the importance placed on client knowledge and continuous involvement with clients, BB&T’s lending process incorporates the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture and an in-depth local market knowledge. Furthermore, the Company employs strict underwriting criteria governing the degree of assumed risk and the diversity of the loan portfolio in terms of type, industry and geographical concentration. In   

52 

Table of Contents  

this context, BB&T strives to meet the credit needs of businesses and consumers in its markets while pursuing a balanced strategy of loan profitability, loan growth and loan quality. 

The following table summarizes BB&T’s loan portfolio based on the regulatory classification of the portfolio, which focuses on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the primary purpose of the loan. Covered loans are included in their respective categories. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table is based upon the regulatory classification of loans and reflects the scheduled maturities of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Scheduled repayments are reported in the maturity category in which the payment is due. Determinations of maturities are based upon contract terms. BB&T’s credit policy typically does not permit automatic renewal of loans. At the scheduled maturity date (including balloon payment date), the customer generally must request a new loan to replace the matured loan and execute either a new note or note modification with rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time. 

53 

Table of Contents  

BB&T’s loan portfolio is approximately 50% commercial and 50% retail by design, and is divided into six major categories—commercial, direct retail, sales finance, revolving credit, residential mortgage and other lending subsidiaries. In addition, BB&T has a portfolio of loans that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is substantially located within the Company’s primary market area. At the same time, the loan portfolio is geographically dispersed throughout BB&T’s branch network to mitigate concentration risk arising from local and regional economic downturns. Refer to the “Risk Management” section herein for a discussion of each of the loan portfolios and the credit risk management policies used to manage the portfolios. 

The following table presents BB&T’s total loan portfolio based upon BB&T’s lines of business, as discussed herein, rather than upon regulatory reporting classifications: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T’s lending portfolio reflected broad-based growth throughout 2012 with notable increases in the commercial and industrial, direct retail and residential mortgage lending portfolios. Total loans were $118.4 billion at year-end 2012, up $7.2 billion, or 6.4%, compared to the balance at year-end 2011. Covered loans decreased $1.6 billion, or 32.3%, during 2012. 

The following table presents BB&T’s average loans for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, segregated by major category: 

54 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average total loans were $113.7 billion for 2012, up $7.8 billion compared to the prior year. Average commercial and industrial loans increased $2.8 billion, or 8.2%, in 2012 as compared to 2011. The increase in the commercial and industrial portfolio was driven by investments in corporate banking in key national markets and the expansion of vertical lending teams focused on targeted industries. Average CRE – other loans for 2012 decreased $360 million, or 3.2%, compared to 2011. The average CRE – residential ADC portfolio declined $1.1 billion, or 39.9%, compared to the average balance for 2011, as management continued to reduce exposure to higher risk real estate lending. 

Average direct retail loans increased 10.3% during 2012, primarily due to increased demand for home equity loans and an increase in non-real estate loans generated through the wealth and small business lending channels. This growth was partially offset by continued runoff of the residential lot/land component of this portfolio as management has continued to reduce exposures to these types of loans. Average sales finance loans and average revolving credit reflected 2012 growth rates of 6.6% and 5.3%, respectively. BB&T concentrates its efforts on the highest quality borrowers in both of these product markets. The growth in average sales finance loans was primarily driven by an increase in prime automobile lending, which reflects increased momentum in the new and used automobile markets during 2012. 

Average residential mortgage loans increased $3.8 billion, or 20.5%, compared to 2011. The increase in residential mortgage loans was driven by a previous strategy that resulted in a higher portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production being retained in the held for investment loan portfolio. During the second quarter of 2012, this strategy was modified such that the majority of future loan production is directed to the held for sale portfolio. As a result, management expects slower growth in the residential mortgage loan portfolio during 2013. 

Average loans held by BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries increased $1.2 billion, or 15.0%, compared to 2011. The growth in this portfolio was primarily in small ticket finance, equipment leasing and nonprime automobile financing. 

Asset Quality 

The following discussion excludes assets covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements that provide for reimbursement to BB&T for the majority of losses incurred on those assets. Covered loans, which are considered performing due to the application of the accretion method of accounting, were $3.3 billion at December 31, 2012 and $4.9 billion in the prior year. Covered foreclosed property totaled $254 million and $378 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

NPAs, which include foreclosed real estate, repossessions and nonaccrual loans, totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011. The decline in NPAs of $914 million was driven by a decrease of $492 million in NPLs and $422 million in foreclosed property. The decline in NPLs was broad-based, reflecting decreases in most loan portfolios, including a 34.5% decrease in commercial NPLs. The decline in foreclosed property reflects a more   

55 

Table of Contents  

aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property that was implemented during the fourth quarter of 2011. The current inventory of foreclosed real estate as of December 31, 2012 includes land and lots, totaling $35 million that have been held for approximately 15 months on average. The remaining foreclosed real estate of $72 million, which is primarily single family residential and commercial real estate, had an average holding period of seven months. NPAs as a percentage of loans and leases plus foreclosed property were 1.33% at December 31, 2012 compared with 2.29% at December 31, 2011. 

Management expects NPAs to improve at a modest pace during the first quarter of 2013, assuming no significant economic deterioration during the quarter. 

The following table presents the changes in NPAs during 2012 and 2011. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Tables 18 and 19 summarize asset quality information for the past five years. As more fully described below, this information has been adjusted to exclude past due loans that are subject to FDIC loss sharing agreements and certain mortgage loans guaranteed by the government: 

 ·In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, covered loans that are contractually past due are reported as past due and still accruing based on the number of days past due. However, given the significant amount of acquired loans that are past due but still accruing due to the application of the accretion method, BB&T has concluded that it is appropriate to adjust Table 18 to exclude covered loans in summarizing total loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing and total loans 30-89 days past due and still accruing. 

 ·BB&T has also concluded that the inclusion of covered loans in certain asset quality ratios summarized in Table 19 including “Loans 30-89 days past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total loans and leases” and certain other asset quality ratios that reflect NPAs in the numerator or denominator (or both) results in significant distortion to these ratios. In addition, because loan level charge-offs related to the acquired loans are not recognized in the financial statements until the cumulative amounts exceed the original loss projections on a pool basis, the net charge-off ratio for the acquired loans is not consistent with the net charge-off ratio for other loan portfolios. The inclusion of these loans in the asset quality ratios described above could result in a lack of comparability across quarters or years, and could negatively impact comparability with other portfolios that were not impacted by acquisition accounting. BB&T believes that the presentation of asset quality measures excluding covered loans and related amounts from both the numerator and denominator provides better perspective into underlying trends related to the quality of its loan portfolio. Accordingly, the asset quality measures in Table 19 present asset quality information both on a consolidated basis as well as excluding the covered assets and related amounts. 

 ·In addition, BB&T has excluded mortgage loans that are guaranteed by the government, primarily FHA/VA loans, from the asset quality metrics and ratios reflected on Tables 18 and 19, as these loans are recoverable through various government guarantees. In addition, BB&T has recorded on the balance sheet   

56 

Table of Contents  

   certain amounts related to delinquent GNMA loans serviced for others that BB&T has the option, but not the obligation, to repurchase and has effectively regained control. These amounts are also excluded from asset quality metrics as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding in accordance with investor guidelines. The amount of government guaranteed mortgage loans and GNMA loans serviced for others that have been excluded are noted in the footnotes to Table 18. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million and $17 million as of 2009 and 2008, respectively. BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010. The change in policy resulted in a decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still accruing of approximately $79 million. 

 (2)Excludes covered foreclosed real estate totaling $254 million, $378 million, $313 million and $160 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

 (3)Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that are 90 days or more past due totaling $517 million, $426 million, $425 million, $337 million and $74 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

 (4)Excludes mortgage loans past due 90 days or more that are government guaranteed totaling $254 million, $206 million, $153 million, $8 million and $7 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Includes past due mortgage LHFS. 

 (5)Excludes covered loans past due 90 days or more totaling $442 million, $736 million, $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

 (6)Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that are past due 30-89 days totaling $5 million, $7 million, $7 million, $10 million and $12 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

57 

Table of Contents  

(7)Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that are government guaranteed totaling $96 million, $91 million, $83 million, $23 million and $25 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Includes past due mortgage LHFS. 

 (8)Excludes covered loans past due 30-89 days totaling $135 million, $222 million, $363 million and $391 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest, excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, totaled $167 million at December 31, 2012, compared with $202 million at year-end 2011, a decline of 17.3%. Loans 30-89 days past due, excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012, which was a decline of $64 million, or 5.7% compared to year-end 2011. Excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, BB&T’s past due asset quality metrics are essentially at normalized levels. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA. Refer to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 

 (2)Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by the government. Refer to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 

 (3)Net charge-offs for 2011 and 2010 include $695 million and $236 million, respectively, related to BB&T’s NPA disposition strategy. In connection with this strategy, approximately $271 million and $1.9 billion of problem loans   

58 

Table of Contents  

    were transferred from loans held for investment to LHFS in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The disposition of all such loans was complete as of December 31, 2011. 

 (4)These asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of covered loans and covered foreclosed property. Appropriate adjustments to the numerator and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios. 

BB&T’s potential problem loans include loans on nonaccrual status or past due as disclosed in Table 18. In addition, for its commercial portfolio segment, loans that are rated special mention or substandard performing are closely monitored by management as potential problem loans. Refer to Note 4 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to these potential problem loans. 

TDRs generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is expected to experience, financial difficulties in the near-term. As a result, BB&T will work with the borrower to prevent further difficulties, and ultimately to improve the likelihood of recovery on the loan. To facilitate this process, a concessionary modification that would not otherwise be considered may be granted resulting in classification of the loan as a TDR. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional policy information regarding TDRs. 

BB&T’s performing TDRs, excluding government guaranteed mortgage loans, totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2012, an increase of $218 million, or 19.7%, compared with December 31, 2011. This increase was attributable to guidance issued by a national bank regulatory agency during 2012 that requires certain loans, which have been discharged in bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower, to be accounted for as a TDR and possibly as nonperforming, regardless of their actual payment history and expected performance. BB&T’s primary regulators have not formalized how this guidance will be applied to the entities that it regulates. However, based on a preliminary interpretation of this guidance, BB&T classified $226 million of performing loans across all loan portfolios as TDRs during the fourth quarter of 2012. Approximately 77% of these loans have been current for two years or more and approximately 92% are less than 60 days past due. As a result, BB&T concluded that it has a reasonable expectation of collection of principal and interest and therefore has classified these TDRs as performing. BB&T’s exposure to the expected collateral shortfall has been considered in the ALLL recorded at December 31, 2012. 

In addition, BB&T classified approximately $44 million of loans already on nonaccrual status as TDRs as a result of regulatory guidance described above. The classification of these loans as TDRs had an insignificant impact on the allowance as these loans had been previously charged down to their estimated collateral value less costs to sell. 

The following table provides a summary of performing TDR activity during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments and payoffs represent cash received from borrowers in connection with scheduled principal payments, prepayments and payoffs of amounts outstanding. Transfers to nonperforming TDRs represent loans that no longer meet the requirements necessary to reflect the loan in accruing status and as a result are subsequently classified as a nonperforming TDR. 

TDRs may be removed due to the passage of time if they: (1) did not include a forgiveness of principal or interest, (2) have performed in accordance with the modified terms (generally a minimum of six months), (3) were reported as a TDR over a year end reporting period, and (4) reflected an interest rate on the modified loan that was no less than a market rate at the date of modification. These loans were previously considered TDRs as a result of structural concessions such as extended interest-only terms or an amortization period that did not otherwise conform to normal underwriting guidelines. 

59 

Table of Contents  

In addition, certain transactions may be removed from classification as a TDR as a result of a subsequent non-concessionary re-modification. Non-concessionary re-modifications represent TDRs that did not contain concessionary terms at the date of a subsequent renewal/modification and there was a reasonable expectation that the borrower would continue to comply with the terms of the loan subsequent to the date of the re-modification. A re-modification may be considered for such a re-classification if the loan has not had a forgiveness of principal or interest and the modified terms qualify as more than minor such that the re-modified loan is considered a new loan. Alternatively, such loans may be considered for reclassification in years subsequent to the date of the re-modification based on the passage of time as described in the preceding paragraph. 

In connection with consumer loan TDRs, a NPL will be returned to accruing status when current as to principal and interest and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a minimum of six months). 

The following table provides further details regarding the payment status of TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2012: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)Past due performing TDRs are included in past due disclosures. 

 (2)Excludes mortgage TDRs that are government guaranteed totaling $315 million. 

 (3)Nonperforming TDRs are included in nonaccrual loan disclosures. 

ACL 

The ACL, which totaled $2.0 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, consists of the ALLL, which is presented separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the RUFC, which is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ALLL amounted to 1.76% of loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2012 (or 1.70% excluding covered loans), compared to 2.10% (or 2.05% excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2011. The decline in the ALLL reflects continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio, especially in the commercial portfolio segment due to improvement in risk-grade migration trends and reductions in higher-risk CRE loans. The ratio of the ALLL to NPLs held for investment, excluding covered loans, was 1.37x at December 31, 2012 compared to 1.13x at December 31, 2011. 

BB&T’s net charge-offs totaled $1.3 billion for 2012, compared to $1.7 billion in 2011. Included in net charge-offs for 2012 and 2011 was $34 million and $66 million, respectively, of charge-offs related to covered loans. BB&T’s net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases was 1.14% (or 1.15% excluding covered loans) for 2012, compared to 1.57% (or 1.59% excluding covered loans), in 2011. Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million of losses on the sale of problem loans in connection with management’s NPA disposition strategy. Excluding these charge-offs, the adjusted net charge-off ratio would have been 1.50% in 2011. Net charge-offs decreased in most lending portfolios, including a 24.7% decrease in CRE – other, a 46.2% decrease in CRE – residential ADC and a 49.6% reduction in residential mortgage net charge-offs. Net charge-offs for the commercial and industrial and other lending subsidiaries portfolios increased 8.5% and 20.6%, respectively. Management expects net charge-offs to approximate 1.00% in the first quarter of 2013 and trend lower throughout the remainder of the year. 

60 

Table of Contents  

Refer to Note 4 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures. 

The following table presents an estimated allocation of the ALLL at the end of each of the last five years. This allocation of the ALLL is calculated on an approximate basis and is not necessarily indicative of future losses or allocations. The entire amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring in any category of loans and leases. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Information related to BB&T’s ALLL for the last five years is presented in the following table. 

61 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Funding Activities  

Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and investing activities. Scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, and maturities from portfolios of loans and investment securities also provide a stable source of funds. FHLB advances, other secured borrowings, Federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term debt issued through the capital markets, all provide supplemental liquidity sources. BB&T’s funding activities are monitored and governed through BB&T’s overall asset/liability management process, which is further discussed in the “Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. Following is a brief description of the various sources of funds used by BB&T. 

Deposits  

Deposits are attracted principally from clients within BB&T’s branch network through the offering of a broad selection of deposit instruments to individuals and businesses, including noninterest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, CDs and individual retirement accounts. Deposit account terms vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and service charge schedules. Interest rates paid on specific deposit types are determined based on (i) the interest rates offered by competitors, (ii) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (iii) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and (iv) anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Deposits are attractive sources of funding because of their   

62 

Table of Contents  

stability and relative cost. Deposits are regarded as an important part of the overall client relationship and provide opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services. 

Total deposits at December 31, 2012, were $133.1 billion, an increase of $8.1 billion, or 6.5%, compared to year-end 2011. Noninterest-bearing deposits totaled $32.5 billion at December 31, 2012, an increase of $6.8 billion, or 26.4%, from December 31, 2011. The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits was broad based in nature, with increases in deposits from personal, business and public funds clients. Interest checking and money market and savings accounts increased $3.7 billion, or 5.6% compared to the prior year, while certificates and other time deposits declined $2.3 billion, or 6.7%, during that same time period. For the year ended December 31, 2012, total deposits averaged $127.6 billion, an increase of $15.3 billion, or 13.6%, compared to 2011. Management currently expects more modest deposit growth in the first quarter of 2013. 

The following table presents BB&T’s average deposits for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, segregated by major category: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The overall mix of deposits improved during 2012, with average noninterest-bearing deposits representing 22.7% of average total deposits during 2012, compared to 20.4% during 2011. Deposit mix was also positively impacted by certificates and other time deposits, which represented 24.8% of average total deposits during 2012, down from 25.7% of average total deposits during 2011. The average cost of interest-bearing deposits was 0.43% for 2012, compared to 0.68% in the prior year. Management expects that deposit costs will continue to trend downward in 2013. 

The following table provides information regarding the scheduled maturities of time deposits that are $100,000 and greater at December 31, 2012: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Short-term Borrowings  

BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in meeting funding needs. While deposits remain the primary source for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borrowings were 1.9% of total funding on average in 2012 as compared to 3.2% in 2011. See Note 8 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings that have been, or may be, used by the Company include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes and short-term bank notes. All of BB&T’s securities sold under repurchase agreements are reflected as collateralized borrowings on the balance sheet. Short-term borrowings at the end of 2012 were $2.9 billion, a decrease of $702 million, or 19.7%, compared to year-   

63 

Table of Contents  

end 2011. Average short-term borrowings totaled $3.4 billion during 2012 compared to $5.2 billion last year, a decrease of 34.3%. The decline in the balances during 2012 primarily reflects the strong deposit growth described previously. 

The following table summarizes certain pertinent information for the past three years with respect to BB&T’s short-term borrowings: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-term Debt  

BB&T uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a lesser extent, regulatory capital. During 2012, long-term debt represented 11.6% of average total funding, compared to 13.7% during 2011. At December 31, 2012, long-term debt totaled $19.1 billion, a decrease of $2.7 billion compared to year-end 2011. The average cost of long-term debt was 3.02% in 2012, compared to 3.40% in 2011. See Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. 

BB&T’s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which represented 47.1% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2012; senior notes of BB&T, which represented 31.6% of the year-end balance; subordinated notes of BB&T, which represented 11.3% of the year-end balance; and subordinated notes of Branch Bank, which represented 6.4% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2012. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and liquidity. 

The decrease in long-term debt reflects the redemption of $3.3 billion of junior subordinated debt and the maturity of $1.0 billion in senior debt. The redemption of the junior subordinated debt was initiated based on the early redemption provisions of the related trust preferred securities due to the fact that they will no longer qualify for Tier 1 capital treatment.  

These decreases in long-term debt were partially offset by the issuance of $2.3 billion of senior and subordinated notes with interest rates ranging from 1.45% to 3.95%.  

Shareholders’ Equity  

Shareholders’ equity totaled $21.2 billion at December 31, 2012, an increase of $3.7 billion, or 21.4%, from year-end 2011. BB&T’s book value per common share at December 31, 2012 was $27.21, compared to $24.98 at December 31, 2011. 

The increase in shareholders’ equity during 2012 includes $2.1 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of Tier 1 qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. See Note 11 “Shareholders’ Equity” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. In addition, shareholders’ equity increased $1.4 billion due to BB&T’s earnings available to common shareholders retained after dividends declared, and $113 million as a result of the issuance of additional shares and other transactions in connection with BB&T’s equity-based compensation plans, 401(k) plan and dividend reinvestment plan. Accumulated other comprehensive income increased $154 million. The increase in accumulated other comprehensive income was primarily due to a $335 million after-tax increase in the value of the available for sale securities  

64 

Table of Contents  

 portfolio, partially offset by declines of $111 million related to pensions and other post-retirement benefit plans and $61 million related to an increase in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements. 

BB&T’s tangible book value per common share at December 31, 2012 was $17.52 compared to $16.73 at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company. 

Risk Management  

In the normal course of business BB&T encounters inherent risk in its business activities. Risk is managed on a decentralized basis with risk decisions made as closely as possible to where the source of risk occurs. Centrally, risk oversight is managed at the corporate level through oversight, policies and reporting. The principal types of inherent risk include regulatory, credit, liquidity, market, operational, reputation and strategic risks. 

Regulatory risk  

Regulatory risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or reputation arising from violations of, or nonconformance with current and changing laws, regulations, supervisory guidance, regulatory expectations, or the rules, standards, or codes of conduct of self regulatory organizations. 

Credit risk  

Credit risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from the default, inability or unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty to meet the terms of any financial obligation with BB&T or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk exists in all activities where success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when BB&T funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether on or off the balance sheet. Credit risk also occurs when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other instruments the bank holds deteriorates. 

BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk: 

 ·limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower; 

 ·establishing a process for credit approval accountability; 

 ·careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks; 

 ·ongoing servicing and monitoring of individual loans and lending relationships; 

 ·continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and 

 ·periodically reevaluating the bank’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change. 

The following discussion presents the principal types of lending conducted by BB&T and describes the underwriting procedures and overall risk management of BB&T’s lending function. 

Underwriting Approach  

Recognizing that the loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, proper loan underwriting is critical to BB&T’s long-term financial success. BB&T’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that ensure credit relationships conform to BB&T’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan renewals: 

 ·Cash flow and debt service coverage—cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans must either be clearly supported by a borrower’s cash flow or, if not, must be justified by secondary repayment sources. 

 ·Secondary sources of repayment—alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can be easily accessed and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source. 

65 

Table of Contents  

·Value of any underlying collateral—loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and secondary sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower’s normal cash flows. 

 ·Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account the customer’s relationships, both past and current, with BB&T and other lenders—BB&T’s success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing their financial position and background. 

 ·Level of equity invested in the transaction—in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior to any loan advances. 

Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio  

The commercial loan and lease portfolio represents the largest category of the Company’s total loan portfolio. BB&T’s commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve small-to-middle market businesses with sales of $250 million or less. In addition, BB&T’s Corporate Banking Group provides lending solutions to large corporate clients. Traditionally, lending to small and mid-sized businesses has been among BB&T’s strongest market segments. 

Commercial and small business loans are primarily originated through BB&T’s Community Bank. In accordance with the Company’s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed underwriting process, which incorporates BB&T’s underwriting approach, procedures and evaluations described above. Commercial loans are typically priced with an interest rate tied to market indices, such as the prime rate or LIBOR. Commercial loans are individually monitored and reviewed for any possible deterioration in the ability of the client to repay the loan. Approximately 90% of BB&T’s commercial loans are secured by real estate, business equipment, inventories and other types of collateral. 

Direct Retail Loan Portfolio  

The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a wide variety of loan products offered through BB&T’s branch network. Various types of secured and unsecured loans are marketed to qualifying existing clients and to other creditworthy candidates in BB&T’s market area. The vast majority of direct retail loans are secured by first or second liens on residential real estate and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home equity lines of credit. Direct retail loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Company’s risk philosophy. 

Sales Finance Loan Portfolio  

The sales finance category primarily includes secured indirect installment loans to consumers for the purchase of new and used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles. Such loans are originated through approved franchised and independent dealers throughout the BB&T market area. These loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Company’s risk philosophy. In addition to its normal underwriting due diligence, BB&T uses application systems and “scoring systems” to help underwrite and manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio. Also included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, serviced by the Dealer Finance Department, to finance dealer wholesale inventory (“Floor Plan Lines”) for resale to consumers. Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan officers in compliance with the same rigorous lending policies described above for commercial loans. In addition, Floor Plan Lines are subject to intensive monitoring and oversight to ensure quality and to mitigate risk, including from fraud. 

Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio  

The revolving credit portfolio comprises the outstanding balances on credit cards and BB&T’s checking account overdraft protection product, Constant Credit. BB&T markets credit cards to its existing banking client base and does not solicit cardholders through nationwide programs or other forms of mass marketing. Such balances are generally unsecured and actively managed. 

Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio  

Branch Bank offers various types of fixed- and adjustable-rate loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or refinancing residential properties. BB&T primarily originates conforming mortgage loans and higher quality jumbo and construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied properties. Conforming loans are loans that are underwritten in accordance with the underwriting standards set forth by FNMA and FHLMC. They are generally collateralized by one-to-   

66 

Table of Contents  

four-family residential real estate, typically have loan-to-collateral value ratios of 80% or less, and are made to borrowers in good credit standing. Additionally, BB&T’s Direct Retail Lending group provides home equity loans that can increase the loan-to-collateral value to 90% or less for certain borrowers. 

Risks associated with the mortgage lending function include interest rate risk, which is mitigated through the sale of a substantial portion of conforming fixed-rate loans in the secondary mortgage market and an effective MSR hedging process. Borrower risk is lessened through rigorous underwriting procedures and mortgage insurance. The right to service the loans and receive servicing income is generally retained when conforming loans are sold. Management believes that the retention of mortgage servicing is a primary relationship driver in retail banking and a vital part of management’s strategy to establish profitable long-term customer relationships and offer high quality client service. BB&T also purchases residential mortgage loans from correspondent originators. The loans purchased from third-party originators are subject to the same underwriting and risk-management criteria as loans originated internally. 

Other Lending Subsidiaries Portfolio  

BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries portfolio consists of loans originated through six LOBs that provide specialty finance alternatives to consumers and businesses including: dealer-based financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, commercial equipment leasing and finance, direct and indirect consumer finance, insurance premium finance, indirect nonprime automobile finance, and full-service commercial mortgage banking. BB&T offers these services to bank clients as well as nonbank clients within and outside BB&T’s primary geographic market area. 

BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overall underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer lending portfolio and also utilize automated credit scoring to assist with underwriting credit risk. The majority of these loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. The majority of the loans are secured by real estate, automobiles, equipment or unearned insurance premiums. As of December 31, 2012, included in the other lending subsidiaries portfolio are loans to nonprime borrowers of approximately $3.6 billion, or 3.0% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio. Of these, approximately $262 million are residential real estate loans. 

Covered Loan Portfolio  

BB&T has $3.3 billion of loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which are primarily CRE and residential mortgage loans. Refer to Note 3 “Loans and Leases” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this report for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s covered loans. 

Liquidity risk  

Liquidity risk is the risk to ongoing operations arising from the inability to accommodate liability maturities, deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth, or meet contractual obligations when they come due. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of liquidity risk, see the “Liquidity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein. 

Market risk  

Market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the market value of portfolios, securities, or other financial instruments due to changes in the level, volatility, or correlations among financial market rates or prices, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, or other relevant rates or prices. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of market risk, see the “Market Risk Management” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein. 

Operational risk  

Operational risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from defective transactions, litigation or claims made, or the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets. 

Reputation risk  

Reputation risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, the BB&T brand, and public confidence arising from negative publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, regarding BB&T’s business practices, products and services, transactions, or other activities undertaken by BB&T, its representatives, or its partners. Reputation risk may impact BB&T’s clients, employees, communities or shareholders, and is often a residual risk that arises when other risks are not managed properly. 

67 

Table of Contents  

Strategic risk  

Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, and to the achievement of BB&T’s Vision, Mission, Purpose, and business objectives that arises from BB&T’s business strategy, adverse business decisions, improper or ineffective implementation of decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in business environment. Strategic risk is a function of the compatibility of BB&T’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation. 

Risk Governance  

The management of risk has always been an enterprise-wide initiative at BB&T. It is part of BB&T’s mission statement that risk is managed to optimize the long-term return to shareholders, while providing a safe and sound investment. 

The Chief Risk Officer leads the RMO, which designs, organizes and manages BB&T’s risk framework. The management of risk begins at the business level through risk identification and management programs. The RMO is responsible for ensuring effective risk management oversight, measurement, monitoring, reporting and consistency of controls. 

Market Risk Management 

The effective management of market risk is essential to achieving BB&T’s strategic financial objectives. As a financial institution, BB&T’s most significant market risk exposure is interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk in BB&T’s lines of business. The primary objectives of market risk management are to minimize any adverse effect that changes in market risk factors may have on net interest income, and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets recorded at fair value. Market Risk Management also performs the enterprise-wide IPV function. 

Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading) 

BB&T actively manages market risk associated with asset and liability portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportunities in BB&T’s portfolios of assets and liabilities that will produce reasonably consistent net interest income during periods of changing interest rates. These portfolios are analyzed for proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios. 

The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve relatively stable NIM and assure liquidity by coordinating the volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets, deposits and borrowed funds. Among other things, this process gives consideration to prepayment trends related to securities, loans and leases and certain deposits that have no stated maturity. Prepayment assumptions are developed using a combination of market data and internal historical prepayment experience for residential mortgage-related loans and securities, and internal historical prepayment experience for client deposits with no stated maturity and loans that are not residential mortgage related. These assumptions are subject to monthly back-testing, and are adjusted as deemed necessary to reflect changes in interest rates relative to the reference rate of the underlying assets or liabilities. On a monthly basis, BB&T evaluates the accuracy of its interest rate forecast simulation model, which includes an evaluation of its prepayment assumptions, to ensure that all significant assumptions inherent in the model appropriately reflect changes in the interest rate environment and related trends in prepayment activity. It is the responsibility of the MRLCC to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate performance goals. The MRLCC also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term strategies with respect to interest rate risk exposure and liquidity. The MRLCC meets regularly to review BB&T’s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in interest rates is within acceptable standards. 

BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage economic risk related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and mortgage banking operations, long-term debt and other funding sources. BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $73.3 billion, with a net fair value of $13 million. See Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures. 

The majority of BB&T’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories. Fluctuations in interest rates and actions of the FRB to regulate the availability and cost of credit have a greater effect on a financial institution’s profitability than do   

68 

Table of Contents  

the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the MRLCC, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates and inflationary trends. 

Management uses the Simulation to measure the sensitivity of projected earnings to changes in interest rates. The Simulation model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for a rolling two-year period of time. The Simulation takes into account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, investments and commitments to enter into those transactions. Furthermore, the Simulation considers the impact of expected customer behavior. Management monitors BB&T’s interest sensitivity by means of a model that incorporates current volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities and payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with multiple scenarios that include projected prepayments, repricing opportunities and anticipated volume growth. Using this information, the model projects earnings based on projected portfolio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios. This level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in interest rates and portfolio balances may have on the earnings of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as static or dynamic gap. In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses EVE analysis to focus on projected changes in capital given potential changes in interest rates. This measure also allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analysis window contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T’s assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the economic value of BB&T’s equity. 

The asset/liability management process requires a number of key assumptions. Management determines the most likely outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T’s current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach performance goals. 

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next twelve months assuming a gradual change in interest rates as described below. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sensitivity, customer preferences and capital plans. The resulting change in net interest income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest-sensitive income has in relation to changing interest rates. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The MRLCC has established parameters related to interest sensitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest income under different interest rate scenarios. In the event the results of the Simulation model fall outside the established parameters, management will make recommendations to the MRLCC on the most appropriate response given the current economic forecast. The following parameters and interest rate scenarios are considered BB&T’s primary measures of interest rate risk: 

 ·Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months assuming a linear change in interest rates totaling 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining eight month period. 

 ·Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 4% for the next 12 months assuming a linear change of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month period.  

69 

Table of Contents  

These “interest rate ramp” limits are considered BB&T’s primary measure of interest rate risk. If a rate change of 200 basis points cannot be modeled due to a low level of rates, a proportional limit applies. Management currently only models a negative 25 basis point decline because larger declines would have resulted in a Federal funds rate of less than zero. In a situation such as this, the maximum negative impact on net interest income is adjusted on a proportional basis. Regardless of the proportional limit, the negative risk exposure limit will be the greater of 1% or the proportional limit. 

Management has also established a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 4% for an immediate 100 basis points change in rates and 8% for an immediate 200 basis points change in rates. These “interest rate shock” limits are designed to create an outer band of acceptable risk based upon a significant and immediate change in rates. 

Management must also consider how the balance sheet and interest rate risk position could be impacted by changes in balance sheet mix. Liquidity in the banking industry has been very strong during the current economic downturn. Much of this liquidity increase has been due to a significant increase in noninterest-bearing demand deposits. Consistent with the industry, Branch Bank has seen a significant increase in this funding source. The behavior of these deposits is one of the most important assumptions used in determining the interest rate risk position of BB&T. A loss of these deposits in the future would reduce the asset sensitivity of BB&T’s balance sheet as the company increases interest-bearing funds to offset the loss of this advantageous funding source. 

Beta represents the correlation between overall market interest rates and the rates paid by BB&T on interest-bearing deposits. BB&T applies an average beta of approximately 80% to its managed rate deposits for determining its interest rate sensitivity. Managed rate deposits are high beta, premium money market and interest checking accounts, which attract significant client funds when needed to support balance sheet growth. BB&T regularly conducts sensitivity on other key variables to determine the impact they could have on the interest rate risk position. This discipline informs management judgment and allows BB&T to evaluate the likely impact on its balance sheet management strategies due to a more extreme variation in a key assumption than expected. 

The following table shows the effect that the loss of demand deposits and an associated increase in managed rate deposits would have on BB&T’s interest-rate sensitivity position. For purposes of this analysis, BB&T modeled the beta at 100%. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related and other assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing and deposit sensitivity. The resulting change in the EVE reflects the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates. 

70 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Market Risk from Trading Activities 

BB&T also manages market risk from trading activities which consists of acting as a financial intermediary to provide its customers access to derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets. Trading market risk is managed through the use of statistical and non-statistical risk measures and limits, with overall firm limits established through Board Policy. BB&T utilizes a historical VaR methodology to measure and aggregate risks across its covered trading lines of business. This methodology uses one year of historical data to estimate economic outcomes for a one-day time horizon at a 99% confidence level. 

The average VaR for the year ended December 31, 2012 was less than $1 million. The maximum daily VaR was approximately $3 million, and the low daily VaR was less than $1 million during the same period. 

Liquidity 

Liquidity represents BB&T’s continuing ability to meet funding needs, primarily deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sale. BB&T monitors key liquidity metrics at both the Parent Company and Branch Bank. 

Parent Company 

The purpose of the Parent Company is to serve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The assets of the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of the Parent Company are principal and interest payments on long-term debt. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to common and preferred shareholders, retirement of common stock and interest and principal payments due on long-term debt. 

The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements was dividends received from subsidiaries, which totaled $1.8 billion during 2012. In addition, the Parent Company issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and $300 million of subordinated notes during 2012, repaid $1.5 billion of maturing long-term debt and redeemed all of its junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, master note balances totaled $37 million and $296 million, respectively. 

The Parent Company had ten issues of senior notes outstanding totaling $6.0 billion and four issues of subordinated notes outstanding totaling $2.2 billion at December 31, 2012. 

Liquidity at the Parent Company is more susceptible to market disruptions. BB&T prudently manages cash levels at the Parent Company to cover a minimum of one year of projected contractual cash outflows which includes unfunded external commitments, debt service, preferred dividends and scheduled debt maturities without the benefit of any new cash infusions. Generally, BB&T maintains a significant buffer above the projected one year of contractual cash outflows. In determining the buffer, BB&T considers cash for common dividends, unfunded commitments to affiliates, being a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries, and being able to withstand sustained market disruptions which may limit access to the credit markets.  

71 

Table of Contents  

 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Parent Company had 35 months and 23 months, respectively, of cash on hand to satisfy projected contractual cash outflows as described above. 

Branch Bank 

Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional CDs, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered CDs and a borrower in custody program with the FRB for the discount window. As of December 31, 2012, BB&T has approximately $53 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents approximately 290% of one year wholesale funding maturities. 

BB&T also monitors the ability to meet customer demand for funds under both normal and stressed market conditions. In considering its liquidity position, management evaluates BB&T’s funding mix based on client core funding, client rate-sensitive funding and non-client rate-sensitive funding. In addition, management also evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive funding sources that mature in one year or less. Management also measures liquidity needs against 30 days of stressed cash outflows for Branch Bank. To ensure a strong liquidity position, management maintains a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unpledged securities. The Company has established a policy that the liquid asset buffer would be a minimum of 5% of total assets, but intends to maintain the ratio well in excess of this level. As of December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, BB&T’s liquid asset buffer was 11.1% and 13.5%, respectively, of total assets. 

BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies’ views of BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T and Branch Bank. The ratings for BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table below. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T and Branch Bank have Contingency Funding Plans designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet their ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. These plans are designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under various “stress” scenarios. Additionally, the plans provide a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The plans address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction. The liquidity options available to management could include seeking secured funding, asset sales, and under the most extreme scenarios, curtailing new loan originations. 

Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. See Note 5 “Premises and Equipment,” Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” and Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies”   

72 

Table of Contents  

in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations. 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, And Related Party Transactions  

The following table presents, as of December 31, 2012, BB&T’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments that may be required in connection with these liabilities. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T’s significant commitments include investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects throughout its market area and private equity funds. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and to Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of these commitments. 

In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financial risk. Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2012 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also issues standard representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. Counterparties in many of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T. 

BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits. In these states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that state. 

As a member of the FHLB, BB&T is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock. The board of directors of the FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of   

73 

Table of Contents  

specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Because the extent of any obligation to increase BB&T’s investment in the FHLB depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the FHLB are not determinable. 

In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and financial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

BB&T’s significant commitments and obligations are summarized in the accompanying table. Not all of the commitments presented in the table will be used, thus the actual cash requirements are likely to be significantly less than the amounts reported. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Related Party Transactions  

The Company may extend credit to its officers and directors in the ordinary course of business. These loans are made under substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking regulations. 

Capital  

The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T’s principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support BB&T’s risk profile consistent with the Board-approved risk appetite, provide financial flexibility to support future growth and client needs, comply with relevant laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, achieve optimal credit ratings for BB&T and its subsidiaries and provide a competitive return to shareholders. 

Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on both a consolidated and bank level basis. Capital ratios are determined using operating forecasts and plans as well as stressed scenarios. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that are in excess of the operating capital guidelines, which are above the regulatory “well capitalized” levels. Management has recently implemented stressed capital ratio minimum guidelines to evaluate whether capital levels are sufficient to withstand the impact of plausible, severe economic downturns or bank-specific events. The following table presents the minimum capital ratios: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments of cash dividends to BB&T’s shareholders and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125%. The active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of BB&T’s capital position. 

The capital of BB&T’s subsidiaries is regularly monitored to determine if the levels that management believes are the most beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Management intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank at levels that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is 

74 

Table of Contents  

 management’s intent to maintain Branch Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory and other operating considerations, in the form of special dividend payments. 

While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Company temporarily falling below its minimum guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management’s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted minimums within a reasonable period of time. Such temporary decreases below these minimums are not considered an infringement of BB&T’s overall capital policy provided the Company and Branch Bank remain “well-capitalized.” 

Risk-based capital ratios, which include Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Common Equity, are calculated based on regulatory guidance related to the measurement of capital and risk-weighted assets. BB&T reevaluated its process related to calculating risk-weighted assets and determined that certain adjustments, primarily related to the presentation of certain unfunded lending commitments, were required in order to conform to regulatory guidance. These adjustments resulted in an increase to risk-weighted assets and a decrease in BB&T’s risk-based capital ratios under the Basel I regulatory guidance. These adjustments had a minimal impact on BB&T’s Basel III ratio as calculated based on the June 7, 2012 NPR. 

BB&T’s Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.3% at December 31, 2012. The acquisitions of Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic during the second and third quarters of 2012, respectively, had a negative impact on regulatory capital, as a result of the intangible assets associated with those acquisitions. This negative regulatory capital impact was offset by strong capital generation during 2012. 

BB&T regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is required to periodically submit the company’s capital plans to the banking regulators. Management’s capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on organic growth, dividends, strategic opportunities and share repurchases. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)The Company has revised its calculation of risk-weighted assets and adjusted the applicable ratios. 

75 

Table of Contents  

 (2)Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. Management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Company. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies. 

(3)Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements. 

As of December 31, 2012, management currently estimates the Tier 1 common ratio under the currently proposed U.S. Basel III standards to be 7.9%. The proposed U.S. Basel III standards incorporate changes to the risk-weighting of loans secured by residential properties, requiring consideration of loan-to-value ratios in determining risk-weighting. Management’s estimate of the Tier 1 common ratio under the proposed U.S. Basel III standards does not include any mitigation strategies to improve capital levels, which management believes will have a significant positive impact on this measure. The following table presents the calculation of the Tier 1 common equity ratio under the proposed Basel III guidelines. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fourth Quarter Results 

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2012 totaling $506 million was up 29.4% compared to $391 million earned during the same period in 2011. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $0.71, up 29.1% compared to $0.55 for the same period in 2011. BB&T’s results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2012 produced an annualized return on average assets of 1.20% and an annualized return on average common shareholders’ equity of 10.51% compared to prior year ratios of 0.93% and 8.76%, respectively. 

Total revenues were $2.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012, up $122 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase in total revenues included $24 million of higher taxable-equivalent net interest income, which was primarily driven by a 21.4% decrease in funding costs from the same quarter of the prior year. NIM was 3.84%, down 18 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2011, which reflects covered loan run-off and lower yields on new loans and securities partially offset by lower funding costs. Noninterest income increased $98 million, primarily attributable to a $108 million increase in insurance income and a $96 million increase in mortgage banking income, offset by a $103 million decrease in net securities gains. 

Noninterest expenses were $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012, a decrease of $130 million, or 8.0%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. The decrease in noninterest expenses was primarily due to a $298 million decrease in foreclosed property expense, which was the result of losses and writedowns in the prior year quarter when management implemented a more aggressive approach to reduce foreclosed real estate. This decrease was partially offset by a $144 million increase in personnel expense primarily due to the Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions, increased production-related incentives and commissions and certain other increases in salaries and benefits. 

76 

Table of Contents  

The provision for credit losses, excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2012 totaled $256 million, compared to $223 million for fourth quarter of 2011. The increase in the provision for credit losses reflects a smaller reserve release in the fourth quarter of 2012 than was recorded in the same quarter of the prior year. Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $85 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting improved credit quality. NPAs declined $914 million, or 37.3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. 

The provision for income taxes was $207 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $84 million for the fourth quarter of 2011. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2012 was 27.4% compared to 17.4% for the prior year’s fourth quarter. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to higher levels of pre-tax earnings relative to permanent tax differences in 2012 compared to 2011. 

The accompanying table, “Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited,” presents condensed information relating to quarterly periods in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

77 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. BB&T’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the Company’s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with GAAP and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of BB&T’s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. 

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the “COSO” criteria. Based on this evaluation under the COSO criteria, management concluded that the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. 

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 

There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2012 that has materially affected or is likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2012, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. 

78 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA