Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities and money market funds that we hold on an available-for-sale basis totaled $1,318.3 million and our trading securities totaled $122.5 million as of March 31, 2009, and $1,489.4 million and $29.6 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2008. The available-for-sale securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

At March 31, 2009, $56.8 million of original purchase value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. Historically, the carrying value of ARS approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. If an auction fails for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. With the continuing liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions. In September 2007 and February 2008, auctions for $24.9 million and $34.8 million, respectively, of the original purchase value of our investments in ARS had failed. While we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ARS no longer approximates the original purchase value. 

At March 31, 2009, the $24.9 million of ARS that failed during September 2007 carried ratings between A and B by Standard & Poors compared to ratings between AAA and AA- at March 31, 2008. All but $2.5 million of the securities possess credit enhancement in the form of insurance for principal and interest. The underlying characteristics of $22.4 million of these ARS relate to servicing statutory requirements in the life insurance industry and $2.5 million relate to a specialty finance company whose counterparty rating was downgraded to Baa1 by Moody’s during December 2008. Moody’s also downgraded the $2.5 million specialty finance company issue we own to Caa3 during December 2008. Additionally, Moody’s downgraded $7.5 million of the $22.4 million of ARS related to servicing statutory requirements in the life insurance industry from Aa3 to Baa1 during the quarter ending December 31, 2008. During the first week of January 2009, Moody’s downgraded other securities from the same issuer of the $7.5 million ARS, which we do not own, to D and simultaneously cited their expectation that the series owned by us would have interest payment shortfalls, but that any shortfalls would be paid by the insurer and the ratings on the notes would then become based on the rating of the insurer. The issuer announced a default as expected in early January 2009 and interest has continuously been paid by the insurer and posted to our account since that time. All rating change actions have been factored into our fair value estimates for the period ending March 31, 2009. 

The $24.9 million in failed auctions have continued to fail through the filing date of this report. As a result, we will not be able to access such funds until a future auction on these investments is successful. The fair value of the failed ARS has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. Based on the estimated values, we concluded these investments were other than temporarily impaired and recognized impairment charges on these investments of $2.4 million during fiscal 2008 and $3.6 million during fiscal 2009. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. 

39 

The $34.8 million of ARS that failed during February 2008 are investments in student loan-backed ARS. Approximately, $0.2 million, $1.7 million, and $1.0 million of these ARS were redeemed at par by the issuers during the first, second, and third quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively, reducing our overall position to $31.9 million. Based upon our evaluation of available information, we believe these investments are of high credit quality, as all of the investments carry AAA credit ratings by one or more of the major credit rating agencies and are largely backed by the federal government (Federal Family Education Loan Program). The fair value of the failed ARS has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. However, if the issuers are not able to successfully close future auctions or over time are not able to obtain more favorable financing options for their debt issuance needs, including refinancing these obligations into lower rate securities, the market value of these investments could be negatively impacted. 

In November 2008, we executed an ARS rights agreement (the Rights) with the broker through which we purchased the $31.9 million in ARS that provides (1) us with the right to put these ARS back to the broker at par anytime during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, and (2) the broker with the right to purchase or sell the ARS at par on our behalf anytime through July 2, 2012. We accounted for the acceptance of the Rights as the receipt of a put option for no consideration and recognized a gain with a corresponding recognition as a long-term investment. We elected to measure the Rights under the fair value option of SFAS No. 159 and will record changes in the fair value of the Rights in earnings. We simultaneously recognized an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $5.5 million as we no longer intend to hold these ARS until the fair value recovers, which was recorded in other comprehensive loss in prior quarters. We reclassified the ARS from available-for-sale to trading securities and future changes in fair value are being recorded in earnings. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we estimated the fair value of the ARS increased by $1.5 million offset by a change in the fair value of the related Rights of $1.5 million, with no net impact to our income statement. We expect any future changes in the fair value of the ARS to continue to be largely offset by changes in the fair value of the related Rights without any significant net impact to our income statement. We will continue to measure the ARS and the Rights at fair value (utilizing Level 3 fair value inputs) until the earlier of its maturity or exercise. 

We continue to monitor the market for ARS and consider its impact, if any, on the fair market value of our investments. If the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional impairment charges. We intend and have the ability to hold these ARS until the market recovers, or as it relates to the $31.9 million of par value of these ARS, until June 30, 2010 when we have the right to sell the securities at par to the broker. We do not anticipate having to sell these securities to fund the operation of our business. We believe that, based on our current unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or ability to fund our operations. 

Our investment in marketable equity securities at March 31, 2009 consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of the balance sheet date. These investments are classified as trading securities and accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The market value of these investments was approximately $79.5 million at March 31, 2009 compared to our cost basis of approximately $85.5 million. The value of our investment in marketable equity securities would be materially impacted if there were a significant change in the market price of the shares. A hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in the stock prices compared to the stock prices at March 31, 2009 would have affected the value of our investments in marketable equity securities by approximately $23.9 million. Additionally, we have sold put options on some of our trading securities, which are recorded as accrued liabilities, and are marked to market value. A decline in the stock price of the underlying security prior to the expiration date of the puts would cause an increase to the liability, which would result in a charge to our results of operations, and could result in the put being exercised by the holder. If the put is exercised by the holder, we could be required to pay up to $11.0 million for additional shares of common stock, at a price potentially in excess of the then fair market value of the common stock. A hypothetical 30% unfavorable change in the stock price of the trading security on which we have sold the puts, compared to the stock price at March 31, 2009 could potentially result in the puts being exercised and would result in our paying $11.0 million to acquire the shares of common stock. The stock would then be marked to market value, affecting the value of our investment by approximately $2.1 million. (See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our investments in marketable equity securities.) 

We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been material to our operating results. Approximately 99% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We maintain hedges related to the net of our asset and liability foreign currency exposure as needed. As of March 31, 2009, there were no foreign currency derivatives outstanding, compared to $2.4 million of foreign currency derivatives outstanding as of March 31, 2008. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at March 31, 2009, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would be immaterial. 

40 

During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements, foreign currency fluctuations, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. The recent decline in general economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 

  Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA