Item 7.   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     

Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements 

This report, including “Item 1 – Business,” “Item 1A – Risk Factors,” and “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “expect,” “estimate,” “future,” “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: 

      ·   The effects that declining economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operation;     

      ·   The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines;     

      ·   Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;     

      ·   The effect of product mix on gross margin;     

      ·   The amount of changes in demand for our products and those of our customers;     

      ·   The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter;     

      ·   The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;     

      ·   Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;     

      ·   Our belief that deferred cost of sales will have low risk of material impairment;     

      ·   Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;     

      ·   Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase;     

      ·   The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;     

      ·   Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;     

      ·   That our existing facilities and planned expansion activities provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand;     

      ·   That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;     

      ·   Our ability to absorb fixed manufacturing costs;     

      ·   Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;     

      ·   Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;     

      ·   Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;     

      ·   The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;     

      ·   Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;     

      ·   Continuation of quarterly cash dividends;     

      ·   The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity;     

      ·   The impact of seasonality on our business;     

      ·   The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;     

23 

      ·   That the resolution of legal actions will not harm our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;     

      ·   That the idling of assets will not impair the value of such assets;     

      ·   Our belief that we may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change;     

      ·   The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;     

      ·   The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate;     

      ·   Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact;     

      ·   The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets, and other liabilities;     

      ·   The adequacy of our patent strategy;     

      ·   Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;     

      ·   The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims;     

      ·   The amount of labor unrest, political instability, governmental interference and changes in general economic conditions that we experience;     

      ·   The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on income and/or cash flows;     

      ·   The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;     

      ·   Our ability to collect accounts receivable;     

      ·   Our belief that our investments in student loan auction rate municipal bond offerings are of high credit quality;     

      ·   Our ability to hold our fixed income investments and certain ARS until the market recovers, and the immaterial impact this will have on our liquidity;     

      ·   Our belief that any future changes in the fair value of the ARS associated with the ARS rights agreement will be largely offset by changes in the fair value of the related rights without any significant net impact to our income statement;     

      ·   The accuracy of our estimation of the cost effectivity of our insurance coverage;     

      ·   Our belief that our activities are conducted in compliance with various regulations not limited to environmental and export compliance;     

      ·   Our ability and intent to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash; and     

      ·   Our expectation that our wafer fabs will operate at levels significantly below peak levels.    

Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in “Item 1A – Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. 

Introduction 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1 – Business;” “Item 6 – Selected Financial Data;” and “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

We begin our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of Microchip’s overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. In the next section, beginning at page 30, we discuss our Results of Operations for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, and for fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” “Contractual Obligations” and “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.” 

Strategy 

Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, which include microcontrollers, high-performance linear and mixed signal devices, power management and thermal management devices, interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, and our patented KeeLoq® security devices. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. 

24 

We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries. The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, office automation and telecommunications. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets. Over the last two quarters of fiscal 2009, the downturn in the U.S. and global economies has adversely impacted our key markets resulting in adverse fluctuations in our business. In response to these adverse economic conditions, we have significantly reduced our operating expenses and are operating our manufacturing facilities at lower production levels. We are unable to predict how long such adverse business conditions will continue. 

Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and test profit margin. 

We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design (CAD) tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. 

We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory and mixed-signal products, new development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. 

We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

General 

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, share-based compensation, inventories, investments, income taxes, property plant and equipment, impairment of property, plant and equipment, junior subordinated convertible debentures and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy regarding revenue recognition to OEMs; however, we do not believe these policies require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult or subjective as our policies described below.

25 

Revenue Recognition – Distributors 

Our distributors worldwide generally have broad price protection and product return rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customer. Revenue is recognized when the distributor sells the product to an end-user, at which time the sales price becomes fixed or determinable. Revenue is not recognized upon shipment to our distributors since, due to discounts from list price as well as price protection rights, the sales price is not substantially fixed or determinable at that time. At the time of shipment to these distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieve inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our consolidated balance sheets. 

Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represents the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognize in future periods could be less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions. 

We sell the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price. However, distributors resell our products to end customers at a very broad range of individually negotiated price points. The majority of our distributors’ resales require a reduction from the original list price paid. Often, under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributors’ outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information to us regarding the sale to their end customer. The price reductions vary significantly based on the customer, product, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors and discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare. The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price to our distributors for the product and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers. Thus, a portion of the “deferred income on shipments to distributors” balance represents the amount of distributors’ original purchase price that will be credited back to the distributor in the future. The wide range and variability of negotiated price concessions granted to distributors does not allow us to accurately estimate the portion of the balance in the deferred income on shipments to distributors account that will be credited back to the distributors. Therefore, we do not reduce deferred income on shipments to distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated future concessions; rather, price concessions are typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which is generally at the time the distributor sells the product. At March 31, 2009, we had approximately $118.2 million of deferred revenue and $34.3 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $83.9 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. At March 31, 2008, we had approximately $130.4 million of deferred revenue and $35.0 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $95.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our income statement will be lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet due to additional price credits to be granted to the distributors when the product is sold to their customers. These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognize in the distribution channel of our business. 

Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our consolidated balance sheets, totaled $37.6 million at March 31, 2009 and $36.4 million at March 31, 2008. On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost. The sales price to our distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe us because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing the product from us and such reductions are often significant. It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced. This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors. As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributor’s working capital requirements. These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage. Such advances have no impact on our revenue recognition or our consolidated statements of income. We process discounts taken by distributors against our deferred income on shipments to distributors’ balance and true-up the advanced amounts generally after the end of each completed fiscal quarter. The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand. The agreements governing these advances can be cancelled by us at any time. 

26 

We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection is granted to distributors on the inventory they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered. When we reduce the price of our products, it allows the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There is no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it is reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors’ balance. 

Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to our consolidated results of operations. We routinely evaluate the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account. Because of the historically immaterial amounts of inventory that have been scrapped, and historically rare instances where discounts given to a distributor result in a price less than our cost, we believe the deferred costs are recorded at their approximate carrying value. 

Share-based Compensation 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 123R, which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Total share-based compensation in fiscal 2009 was $33.4 million, of which $26.6 million was reflected in operating expenses. Total share-based compensation included in cost of sales in fiscal 2009 was $5.8 million. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $4.7 million at March 31, 2009. 

Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. The fair value of our RSUs is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant discounted for expected future dividends. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under our employee stock purchase plans, consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. We use a blend of historical and implied volatility based on options freely traded in the open market as we believe this is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. The expected life of the awards is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of future dividend payouts. SFAS No. 123R requires us to develop an estimate of the number of share-based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported share-based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher or lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase or decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease or increase to the expense recognized in our financial statements. If forfeiture adjustments are made, they would affect our gross margin, research and development expenses, and selling, general, administrative expenses. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2009 was immaterial. 

We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.  

Inventories 

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. 

In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, such as in the second half of fiscal 2009, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. 

27 

Investments 

We classify our investments as trading securities or available-for-sale securities based upon management’s intent with regard to the investments and the nature of the underlying securities.  

Our trading securities consist of strategic investments in shares of publicly traded common stock, restricted cash representing cash collateral for put options we have sold on some of our trading securities and ARS that we intend to dispose of through the exercise of a put option. (See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the ARS put option.) Our investments in trading securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income, (expense).  

Our available-for-sale investments consist of government agency bonds, municipal bonds, ARS and corporate bonds. Our investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity to the extent any unrelated losses are determined to be temporary. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related available-for-sale security. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. The cost of securities sold is calculated using the specific identification method.  

We include within our short-term investments our trading securities, as well as our income yielding available-for-sale securities that can be readily converted to cash and include within long-term investments those income yielding available-for-sale securities with maturities of over one year that have unrealized losses attributable to them or those that cannot be readily liquidated. We have the ability to hold our long-term investments with temporary impairments until such time as these assets are no longer impaired. Such recovery of unrealized losses is not expected to occur within the next year.  

Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on certain of our investment portfolio of ARS, we utilize valuation models including those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation of our ARS investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact our ARS valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk, the ongoing strength and quality of the credit markets, and market liquidity. 

The credit markets experienced significant deterioration and uncertainty beginning in the second half of fiscal 2008. If these conditions continue, or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including our ARS), we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 

Income Taxes 

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At March 31, 2009, our gross deferred tax asset was $69.6 million. 

Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined.  

28 

Property, Plant & Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. At March 31, 2009, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $531.7 million, which represents 22% of our total assets. This carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from 5 to 7 years on manufacturing equipment, from 10 to 15 years on leasehold improvements and approximately 30 years on buildings. 

We began production activities at Fab 4 on October 31, 2003. We began to depreciate the Fab 4 assets as they were placed in service for production purposes. As of March 31, 2009, all of the buildings and supporting facilities were being depreciated as well as the manufacturing equipment that had been placed in service. All manufacturing equipment that was not being used in production activities was maintained in projects in process and is not being depreciated until it is placed into service since management believes there will be no change to its utility from the present time until it is placed into productive service. The lives to be used for depreciating this equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in service. We do not believe that the temporary idling of such assets has impaired the estimated life or carrying values of the underlying assets. 

The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations, could result in materially different carrying values of assets and results of operations. 

Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment 

We assess whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change. 

Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures 

We account for our junior subordinated convertible debentures and related provisions in accordance with the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue (EITF) No. 98-5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, EITF No. 00-27, Application of Issue No. 98-5 to Certain Convertible Instruments, EITF No. 00-19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock, EITF No. 01-6, The Meaning of “Indexed to a Company’s Own Stock,” and EITF No. 04-08, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share. We also evaluate the instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133 (SFAS 133), Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires bifurcation of embedded derivative instruments and measurement of fair value for accounting purposes. EITF No. 04-08 requires us to include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding junior subordinated convertible debentures in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent conversion feature has been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and current ability to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion price per share, which was $32.06 at March 31, 2009, and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future. 

Litigation 

Our current estimated range of liability related to pending litigation is based on the probable loss of claims for which we can reasonably estimate the amount and range of loss. Recorded reserves were immaterial at March 31, 2009. 

Because of the uncertainties related to both the probability of loss and the amount and range of loss on our pending litigation, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially affect our results of operations and financial position. 

29 

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the years indicated: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]     

Net Sales 

We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of market segments, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer’s financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be provided primarily by letters of credit. 

Our net sales of $903.3 million in fiscal 2009 decreased by $132.4 million, or 12.8%, over fiscal 2008, and our net sales of $1,035.7 million in fiscal 2008 decreased by $3.9 million, or 0.4%, over fiscal 2007. The decreases in net sales in these periods resulted primarily from adverse changes in global economic and end market conditions across all of our product lines. Average selling prices for our products were down approximately 4% in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 and were down approximately 3% in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. The number of units of our products sold was down approximately 9% in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 and up approximately 3% in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. The average selling prices and the unit volumes of our sales are impacted by the mix of our products sold and overall semiconductor market conditions. We believe that we have continued to grow our percentage of market share in the embedded control market over the last three fiscal years. Key factors impacting the amount of net sales during the last three fiscal years include: 

      ·   adverse global economic conditions in the markets we serve;     

      ·   increasing semiconductor content in our customers’ products;     

      ·   customers’ increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions;     

      ·   our new product offerings that have increased our served available market;     

      ·   continued market share gains; and     

      ·   inventory holding patterns of our customers.     

Sales by product line for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]     

Microcontrollers 

Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 81% of our total net sales in fiscal 2009, approximately 80.4% of our total net sales in fiscal 2008 and approximately 80.2% of our total net sales in fiscal 2007. 

Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased approximately 12.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, and decreased approximately 0.2% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 resulted primarily from deteriorating global economic conditions in the markets we serve, and those factors described above. The end markets we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial control, communications and computing markets. The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was primarily due to adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve, particularly the housing and consumer markets. 

30 

Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. 

Memory Products 

Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 9.9% of our total net sales in fiscal 2009, approximately 11.6% of our total net sales in fiscal 2008 and approximately 11.8% of our total net sales in fiscal 2007. 

Net sales of our memory products decreased approximately 25.7% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, and decreased approximately 2.0% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. These sales decreases were driven primarily by global economic conditions and by customer demand conditions within the Serial EEPROM market, which products comprise substantially all of our memory product net sales. 

Serial EEPROM product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. 

Analog and Interface Products 

Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 9.1% of our total net sales in fiscal 2009, approximately 8.0% of our total net sales in fiscal 2008 and approximately 8.0% of our total net sales in fiscal 2007. 

Net sales of our analog and interface products were essentially flat in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 and were essentially flat in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. Net sales of our analog and interface products in these periods were driven primarily by deteriorating global economic conditions, market share gains and supply and demand conditions within the analog and interface market. 

Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider more than half of our analog and interface product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog and interface products will increase over time. 

Distribution 

Distributors accounted for 64% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. 

Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and approximately 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Our two largest distributors together accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, and approximately 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. 

Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationship with each other with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. 

At March 31, 2009, our distributors maintained 38 days of inventory of our products compared to 33 days at March 31, 2008 and 32 days at March 31, 2007. Over the past three fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 31 days and 42 days. Thus, inventory levels at our distributors are at the higher end of the range we have experienced over the last three years. We do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will materially impact our net sales, due to the fact that we recognize revenue based on sell-through for all of our distributors. 

31 

Sales by Geography 

Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. 

Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 75% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and 74% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. 

Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and approximately 18% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Sales to customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. We did not have sales into any other countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the last three fiscal years. 

Gross Profit 

Our gross profit was $516.5 million in fiscal 2009, $624.9 million in fiscal 2008 and $624.8 million in fiscal 2007. Gross profit as a percent of sales was 57.2% in fiscal 2009, 60.3% in fiscal 2008 and 60.1% in fiscal 2007. 

The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this report were: 

      ·   production levels below the range of our normal capacity, and resulting under absorption of fixed costs; and     

      ·   inventory write-downs partially offset by sales of inventory that was previously written down.     

Other factors that impacted gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this report include: 

      ·   lower depreciation as a percentage of cost of sales driven by reduced capital requirements in our business due to our purchase of Fab 4;     

      ·   fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, proprietary and non-proprietary analog products and Serial EEPROM products resulting in lower overall average selling prices for our products; and      

      ·   continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques.     

During fiscal 2009, we operated at approximately 84% of our combined Fab 2 and Fab 4 installed capacity. During each of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, we operated at approximately 99% of our combined Fab 2 and Fab 4 installed capacity. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we reduced wafer starts at both Fab 2 and Fab 4 and implemented rotating unpaid time off at both fabrication facilities. The reduction in wafer starts and rotating unpaid time off were implemented to help control inventory levels due to current and expected adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we expect our wafer fabs to continue to operate at levels which are significantly lower than peak levels. 

The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabs impact our gross margins. Fab 2 currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 to 1.0 micron processes. Fab 4 predominantly utilizes our 0.22 to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. 

Our overall inventory levels were $131.5 million at March 31, 2009, compared to $124.5 million at March 31, 2008 and $121.0 million at March 31, 2007. We maintained 134 days of inventory on our balance sheet at March 31, 2009 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2008 and 107 days at March 31, 2007. During the latter part of fiscal 2009, the demand for our products was adversely impacted by the downturn in global economic conditions. We were not able to reduce production levels during that time frame to the extent needed to prevent inventory from rising. 

32 

We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog and interface and memory products and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, capacity utilization levels, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. 

At March 31, 2009, approximately 77% of our assembly requirements were performed in our Thailand facility, compared to approximately 67% at March 31, 2008 and approximately 72% at March 31, 2007. Third-party contractors located in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. Substantially all of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand facility over the last three fiscal years. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We are planning multiple plant shutdowns of our Thailand facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 to help control inventory levels due to current and expected adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. 

As a result of significant reductions in demand and decreased production in our wafer fabs and assembly and test operations, approximately $21.4 million was charged to cost of sales in fiscal 2009, as our production levels for the period were below the range of normal capacity. There were no such charges in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. If production levels stay below our normal capacity, we will continue to charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed manufacturing costs. Also charged to cost of sales during fiscal 2009 was $7.3 million of obsolescence reserve compared to $1.9 million in fiscal 2008 and $2.3 million fiscal 2007. The increase in the obsolescence reserve charge was primarily due to decreased demand for our products related to the adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. 

We rely on outside wafer foundries for a small portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. 

Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. 

Research and Development (R&D) 

R&D expenses for fiscal 2009 were $115.5 million, or 12.8% of sales, compared to $120.9 million, or 11.7% of sales, for fiscal 2008 and $113.7 million, or 10.9% of sales, for fiscal 2007. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility, or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives. R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. 

R&D expenses decreased $5.3 million, or 4.4%, for fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008. The primary reasons for the dollar decrease in R&D costs in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 were cost-cutting actions taken in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, including salary reductions, elimination of bonuses and reductions in travel costs. R&D expenses increased $7.2 million, or 6.3%, for fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. The primary reasons for the dollar increase in R&D costs in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 were higher labor costs as a result of expanding our internal R&D headcount and $1.1 million of additional share-based compensation expense. 

Selling, General and Administrative 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2009 were $161.2 million, or 17.9% of sales, compared to $175.6 million, or 16.9% of sales, for fiscal 2008, and $163.2 million, or 15.7% of sales, for fiscal 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force and field applications engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $14.4 million, or 8.2%, for fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008. The primary reasons for the dollar decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 were cost-cutting actions taken in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, including salary reductions, elimination of bonuses and reduction in travel costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $12.4 million, or 7.6%, for fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. The primary reasons for the dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 were higher labor costs as a result of expanding our internal resources in the technical aspects of selling our products and $1.5 million of additional share-based compensation expense. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. 

33 

Special Charges 

Patent Portfolio License 

We entered into a patent portfolio license effective March 31, 2009 with an unrelated third-party that covers both issued patents and patent applications and settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third-party was $8.25 million, $4.0 million of which was expensed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the remaining $4.25 million of which was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the life of the patents. 

Expenses Associated with the Abandonment of the Atmel Acquisition 

On October 2, 2008, we and ON Semiconductor Corporation announced that we had sent a proposal to the Board of Directors of Atmel Corporation to acquire Atmel for $5.00 per share in cash or a total of approximately $2.3 billion. On October 29, 2008, Atmel announced that its Board of Directors had determined that the unsolicited proposal was inadequate. On December 15, 2008, we delivered a written notification to Atmel regarding a proposed alternate slate of directors to be elected at Atmel’s 2009 annual meeting. On February 10, 2009, we announced our termination of our consideration of a potential transaction with Atmel in light of the economic uncertainty and the lack of visibility with respect to Atmel’s business not allowing us to put a value on Atmel. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we expensed $1.6 million of various costs associated with the terminated proposal. 

In-Process Research and Development 

During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of Hampshire Company, a leader in the large format touch screen controller market. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.5 million in-process research and development charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed the acquisition of HI-TECH Software, a provider of software development tools and compilers. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in-process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of R&E International, a leader in developing innovative integrated circuits for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors and other life-safety systems. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in-process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. 

Loss on Sale of Fab 3 

We received an unsolicited offer on our Fab 3 facility in September 2007. We assessed our available capacity in our current facilities, along with our capacity available from outside foundries and determined the capacity of Fab 3 would not be required in the near term. As a result of this assessment, we accepted the offer on September 21, 2007 and the transaction closed on October 19, 2007. We received $27.5 million in cash net of expenses associated with the sale and recognized an impairment charge in fiscal 2008 of $26.8 million on the sale of Fab 3, representing the difference between the carrying value of the assets at September 30, 2007 and the amounts realized subsequent to September 30, 2007. 

Other Income (Expense) 

Interest income in fiscal 2009 decreased to $32.5 million from $54.9 million in fiscal 2008. Interest income in fiscal 2008 decreased to $54.9 million from $58.4 million in fiscal 2007. The primary reason for the reductions in interest income in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was lower interest rates on our cash and investment balances. Interest expense in fiscal 2009 increased to $24.3 million from $8.0 million in fiscal 2008. Interest expense increased to $8.0 million in fiscal 2008 from $5.4 million in fiscal 2007. The primary reason for the increases in interest expense in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was due to the $1.15 billion in 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures we issued in December 2007. Other expenses, net in fiscal 2009 was $4.4 million compared to other income, net of $2.4 million in fiscal 2008. The increase in other expenses, net was primarily related to a $7.3 million loss on trading securities in fiscal 2009 as a result of market fluctuations in our trading securities and put options as described in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Other income, net was $2.4 million in fiscal 2008 compared to $0.3 million in fiscal 2007. The increase in other income, net was primarily related to gains on sales of fixed assets and gains related to currency rate fluctuations. 

Provision for Income Taxes 

Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on our foreign earnings and federal and state tax on our U.S. earnings. Our effective tax benefit was 4.9% in fiscal 2009 and our effective tax rate was 15.2% in fiscal 2008 and 11.0% in fiscal 2007, and is lower than statutory rates in the U.S. due primarily to lower tax rates at our foreign locations, R&D tax credits and export sales incentives. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 reflects a $16.9 million U.S. tax benefit related to our settlement with the IRS for our fiscal 2005 tax audit and a $33.0 million tax reserve release associated with a favorable clarification of tax regulations. Combined, these tax benefits reduced our effective tax rate by 21 percentage points to an effective tax benefit of 4.9%. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2008 reflects a $10.3 million U.S. tax benefit associated with the sale of Fab 3 in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, a $5.7 million tax benefit related to the release of tax reserves associated with a foreign tax matter in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, a $4.5 million tax benefit related to the release of tax reserves for certain international tax exposures in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and approximately $0.8 million related to accrued interest and other reserve matters. Combined, these tax benefits decreased our effective tax rate in fiscal 2008 by approximately 4.4%. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2007 reflects a $52.2 million benefit related to a tax settlement for our fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2001 tax years that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 which decreased our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 by 13%. 

34 

Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the IRS for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than any final assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. 

Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future. One of our Thailand tax holidays expired in September 2006 and the expiration did not have a material impact on our effective tax rate. Any expiration of our tax holidays in Thailand are expected to have a minimal impact on our overall tax expense due to other tax holidays and increases in income in other taxing jurisdictions with lower statutory rates. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

We had $1,440.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments at March 31, 2009, a decrease of $78.3 million from the March 31, 2008 balance. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to cash generated by operating activities being offset by dividends and stock repurchase activity during the twelve months ended March 31, 2009. 

Net cash provided from operating activities was $308.7 million for fiscal 2009, $447.3 million for fiscal 2008 and $429.8 million for fiscal 2007. The decrease in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was primarily due to lower net income in fiscal 2009, an increase in the purchases of trading securities and changes in accrued liabilities and other assets and liabilities. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $19.8 million for fiscal 2009, net cash provided by investing activities was $55.7 million for fiscal 2008 and net cash used in investing activities was $442.2 million in fiscal 2007. The decrease in cash in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 was primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures and investments in other assets. The increase in cash in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was primarily due to changes in our net purchases, sales and maturities of short-term and long-term investments and cash proceeds from the sale of Fab 3. 

Net cash used in financing activities was $330.2 million for fiscal 2009, $182.7 million for fiscal 2008 and $385.3 million for fiscal 2007. Proceeds from the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plans were $33.6 million for fiscal 2009, $59.1 million for fiscal 2008 and $68.7 million for fiscal 2007. We paid cash dividends to our shareholders of $246.7 million in fiscal 2009, $252.0 million in fiscal 2008, and $207.9 million in fiscal 2007. Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements were $6.8 million in fiscal 2009, $21.2 million in fiscal 2008, and $22.8 million in fiscal 2007. During the year ended March 31, 2008, we received net proceeds of $1,127.0 million from the issuance of our 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures. Cash expended for the repurchase of our common stock was $123.9 million in fiscal 2009 and $1,138.0 million in fiscal 2008. No amounts were expended in fiscal 2007 for the repurchase of our common stock. During fiscal 2007, we paid down $269.0 million in short-term borrowings. To complete the repatriation of $500 million in fiscal 2006, we initiated the $269.0 million in borrowings, which were collateralized against investments that were held in foreign locations, allowing the investments to reach their normal maturity date. 

Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $102.4 million in fiscal 2009, $69.8 million in fiscal 2008 and $60.0 million in fiscal 2007. Capital expenditures are primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $15.0 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. 

We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs.

35 

We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations have had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At March 31, 2009, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. 

On October 23, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2009, no shares related to this authorization remained available for purchase under this program. On December 11, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 10,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2009, 2,460,002 shares related to this authorization remained available for purchase. 

Our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 21,500,000 shares of our common stock concurrent with our junior subordinated convertible debentures transaction described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements and no further shares are available to be repurchased under this authorization. 

As of March 31, 2009, approximately 36.0 million shares of our common stock remained as treasury shares with the balance of the repurchased shares being used to fund share issuance requirements under our equity incentive plans. The timing and amount of future repurchases will depend upon market conditions, interest rates, and corporate considerations. 

On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. During fiscal 2007, we paid dividends in the amount of $0.965 per share for a total dividend payment of $207.9 million. During fiscal 2008, we paid dividends in the amount of $1.205 per share for a total dividend payment of $252.0 million. During fiscal 2009, we paid dividends in the amount of $1.346 per share for a total dividend payment of $246.7 million. On May 7, 2009, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.339 per share, which will be paid on June 4, 2009, to stockholders of record on May 21, 2009 and the total amount of such dividend is expected to be approximately $62.0 million. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. 

We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. 

Contractual Obligations 

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at March 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at March 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 

36 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

  (1) Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for construction or purchases of property, plant and equipment. They are not recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet as of March 31, 2009, as we have not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property.      

  (2) Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under various types of licenses.      

  (3) For purposes of this table we have assumed that the principal of our convertible debentures will be paid on December 31, 2037.      

  (4) Total contractual obligations do not include contractual obligations recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, or certain purchase obligations as discussed below. The contractual obligations also do not include amounts related to uncertain tax positions because reasonable estimates cannot be made.      

Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of raw materials and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on Microchip and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors with short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts were not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. 

The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of March 31, 2009, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303 (a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. 

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 141(R)-1, Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies (FSP FAS 141R-1). FSP FAS 141R-1 amends and clarifies SFAS No. 141R to address application issues on initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. SFAS No. 141R and FSP FAS 141R-1 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and will be adopted by us in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Because the majority of the provisions of SFAS No. 141R and FSP FAS 141R-1 are applicable to future transactions, we do not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 141R and FSP FAS 141R-1 will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent's ownership interest, and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and will be adopted by us in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We do not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

37 

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). The standard requires additional quantitative disclosures (provided in tabular form) and qualitative disclosures for derivative instruments. The required disclosures include how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows; relative volume of derivative activity; the objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments; the accounting treatment for those derivative instruments formally designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge relationship; and the existence and nature of credit-related contingent features for derivatives. SFAS No. 161 was effective for us beginning January 1, 2009. SFAS No. 161 did not change the accounting treatment for derivative instruments and as such, the adoption of SFAS No. 161 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2008, the FASB released FSP APB 14-1, Accounting For Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1) that alters the accounting treatment for convertible debt instruments that allow for either mandatory or optional cash settlements. FSP APB 14-1 will impact the accounting associated with our $1.15 billion junior subordinated convertible debentures. FSP APB 14-1 specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods, and will require us to recognize additional (non-cash) interest expense based on the market rate for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature. Furthermore, FSP APB 14-1 would require us to recognize interest expense in prior periods pursuant to retrospective accounting treatment. FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows. This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and was adopted by us on April 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating the magnitude of the impact of adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will have on our consolidated financial statements. 

In June 2008, the EITF issued EITF 07-05, Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity's Own Stock (EITF No. 07-05). EITF No. 07-05 clarifies the determination of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity's own stock, which would qualify as a scope exception under SFAS 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. EITF No. 07-05 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2010. Early adoption for an existing instrument is not permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of EITF No. 07-05 will have on our consolidated financial statements. 

In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets (EITF No. 08-7). EITF No. 08-7 applies to defensive intangible assets, which are acquired intangible assets that the acquirer does not intend to actively use but intends to hold to prevent its competitors from obtaining access to them. As these assets are separately identifiable, EITF No. 08-7 requires an acquiring entity to account for defensive intangible assets as a separate unit of accounting. Defensive intangible assets must be recognized at fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 157. EITF No. 08-7 is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2010. Because EITF No. 08-7 is applicable to future transactions, we do not believe the adoption of EITF No. 08-7 will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments (FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2). This FSP changes existing guidance for determining whether an impairment of debt securities is other than temporary. The FSP requires other-than-temporary impairments to be separated into the amount representing the decrease in cash flows expected to be collected from a security (referred to as credit losses) which is recognized in earnings and the amount related to other factors which is recognized in other comprehensive income. This noncredit loss component of the impairment may only be classified in other comprehensive income if the holder of the security concludes that it does not intend to sell and it will not more likely than not be required to sell the security before it recovers its value. If these conditions are not met, the noncredit loss must also be recognized in earnings. When adopting the FSP, an entity is required to record a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the period of adoption to reclassify the noncredit component of a previously recognized other-than-temporary impairment from retained earnings to accumulated other comprehensive income. FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. Our management is currently evaluating the requirements of the FSP and has not yet determined the impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

38 

In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (FSP FAS 157-4). This FSP provides additional guidance on estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability. The FSP also provides additional guidance on circumstances that may indicate that a transaction is not orderly. FSP FAS 157-4 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. We do not believe the adoption of this FSP will materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 

In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, Interim Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1). FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1 amends SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. The FSP also amends APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods. FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1 is effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. We are currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1 on our consolidated financial statements. 

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK