PART I  

Item 1. Business  

General  

We are the world’s largest enterprise software company and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software; applications software; and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products. Our products are built on industry standards and are engineered to work together or independently within existing customer information technology (IT), including private and public cloud computing, environments. We offer customers secure, reliable, and scalable integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve business efficiencies and more easily adapt to an organization’s unique needs, at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets.  

We believe our internal growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plans. An important element of our continued innovation and product strategy is to focus the engineering of our hardware and software products to make them work together more effectively and deliver improved computing performance, reliability and security to our customers. Our Oracle Exadata Database Machine and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud products exemplify this strategy and are currently two of our most important products. Both products combine certain of our hardware and software offerings to provide an engineered system that increases computing performance relative to our competitors’ products, creating time savings and operational cost advantages for our customers. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 we invested $4.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products and services.  

We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.  

Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977.  

Software, Hardware Systems and Services  

We are organized into three businesses—software, hardware systems, and services—which are further divided into seven operating segments. Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) Cloud Services and (3) education. Our software, hardware systems, and services businesses represented 68%, 19%, and 13% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2011 and 77%, 9% and 14%, respectively, in fiscal 2010. Prior to our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in January 2010, we did not have a hardware systems business. Our software and services businesses represented 81% and 19% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2009. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our operating segments.  

Our software, hardware systems, and services businesses provide the products and services necessary to run various IT environments, including cloud computing environments. Cloud computing environments provide on demand access to a shared pool of computing resources in a self-service, dynamically scalable manner, delivering advantages in speed and efficiency. Cloud computing has evolved from technologies and services that Oracle has provided for many years, including clustering, server virtualization, Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) shared services and large-scale management automation. Cloud computing environments may be  

3  

Table of Contents 

 deployed as “private” clouds or “public” clouds. Private clouds are exclusive to a single organization. “Public” clouds are used by multiple organizations on a shared basis and hosted and managed by a third party service provider.  

Our cloud computing strategy is broad and comprehensive to provide customers with choice and a pragmatic roadmap for adopting cloud computing. We provide enterprise-grade software and hardware products and services for both private and public clouds, including the following examples:  

For private clouds:  

   •    Oracle Applications software runs on a standards-based, shared and dynamically scalable Oracle platform;  

   •    Oracle Fusion Middleware and Database software, and engineered systems enable customers to consolidate existing Oracle and third party applications, and more efficiently build new applications; and  

   •    Oracle’s servers, storage and networking hardware, virtualization and operating system software, and engineered systems enable customers to run their software applications on shared hardware.  

For public clouds:  

   •    Oracle Cloud Services offer a variety of Oracle Applications and technology with a choice of deployment models, including managed hosting services and subscription-based software offerings;  

   •    Oracle Applications, Fusion Middleware, Database, operating systems and virtualization software products that customers can deploy in public clouds; and  

   •    Oracle Fusion Middleware and Database software, and engineered systems for independent software vendors’ (ISV) Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings, as well as for third party cloud service providers.  

For integration between clouds:  

   •    Oracle software products that enable integration across public and private clouds, including identity and access management, SOA and process integration, and data integration and master data management.  

Engineered Systems  

An important element of our corporate strategy and product development efforts is to engineer our hardware and software products together in order to gain tremendous efficiencies and provide increased IT performance, reliability, and security to customers. These pre-integrated and optimized combinations of our software and hardware products are called “engineered systems.” Two of our most important engineered systems are our Oracle Exadata Database Machine and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud. Because of their high performance, scalability and ability to be shared by multiple applications, they are well suited for IT consolidation and cloud computing.  

Oracle Exadata  

Oracle Exadata is a family of integrated software and hardware products that combines our database, storage and operating system software with our server, storage and networking hardware to provide customers with improved performance for database applications, including online transaction processing and data warehousing, among others. For example, our Oracle Exadata Database Machine is an engineered system that is designed to improve performance, scalability and reliability through an integrated storage and server architecture and high data networking bandwidth. It also features intelligent Oracle Exadata Storage Software to offload query processing, integrate solid state storage and efficiently compress data. Oracle Exadata is designed to enable customers to consolidate databases, manage a greater volume of data, dramatically improve query response times and further reduce costs by using fewer IT resources.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud  

Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud is an engineered system that combines Oracle Fusion Middleware software with our hardware to more effectively run Java and non-Java applications and provide customers with an applications platform for cloud computing. Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud improves the performance of applications that run on it and enables customers to consolidate multiple applications onto a single system designed to be scalable, reliable and secure. As an integrated system, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud simplifies routine maintenance, such as software patching, by providing a single solution that covers the entire system.  

Software Business  

Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment.  

New Software Licenses  

The new software licenses operating segment of our software business includes the licensing of database and middleware software, as well as applications software.  

Our software solutions are designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructures by delivering solutions via an industry standards-based, integrated architecture. This standards-based architecture enables our software products to work in customer environments that may include Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. This approach is designed to support customer choice, reduce customer risk and be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. In this model, our database and certain of our middleware offerings are designed to manage and protect a customer’s underlying business information, while application servers run enterprise applications that are designed to automate multiple business functions and provide intelligence in critical functional areas. Our software products are designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations and to support a choice of operating systems, including, for example, Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products.  

New software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. The standard end user software license agreement for our products generally provides for an initial fee to use the software product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. We also have other types of software license agreements, including licenses that are restricted by the number of employees, licenses that provide for a limited term and open source licenses. New software license revenues represented 26%, 28%, and 31% of total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Database and Middleware Software  

Our database and middleware software offerings are designed to provide a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for midsize businesses, as well as large, global enterprises. Our customers are increasingly focused on reducing the total cost of their IT infrastructure, and we believe that our software offerings help them achieve this goal. Our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments using clustered middleware and database servers and storage. These clusters are designed to scale incrementally as required to address our customers’ IT capacity; satisfy their planning and procurement needs; support their business applications with a standardized platform architecture; reduce their risk of data loss and IT infrastructure downtime; and efficiently utilize available IT resources to meet quality of service expectations.  

New software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 72% of our new software license revenues in each of fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

Database Software  

Oracle Database software is the world’s most popular enterprise database software. It is designed to enable the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including transactional data, business information,  

5  

Table of Contents 

 analytics, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office documents, images, video, spatial and other specialized forms of data such as human genomic and medical data. Oracle Database software is used for a variety of purposes, including online transaction processing applications, data warehousing and business intelligence, as a document repository or specialized data store. Oracle Database is popular for both packaged applications and custom application development.  

Oracle Database software is available in four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that our database software can scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers and our Oracle Exadata Database Machines.  

A number of optional add-on products are available with Oracle Database Enterprise Edition software to address specific customer requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing, information management and systems management. Examples of these products include:  

   •    Oracle Real Application Clusters software, which is designed to enable any Oracle Database application to share more efficiently the processing power and memory capacity of a fault tolerant cluster of servers;  

   •    Oracle Advanced Compression software, which is designed to enable customers to reduce the amount of disk space required to store all their business information and improve query performance;  

   •    Oracle Partitioning software, which is designed to break down large database tables into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier management of data throughout its lifecycle;  

   •    Oracle Database security software, which is designed to encrypt data on disk and networks (Oracle Advanced Security), provide a first line of defense from database attacks (Database Firewall) and protect data when it is archived to both disk and tape (Secure Backup);  

   •    Oracle Database Vault software, which is designed to pro-actively safeguard application data stored in Oracle Database from being accessed by system administrators and other privileged database users to meet regulatory mandates and improve data security;  

   •    Oracle Audit Vault software, which is designed to reduce the cost and complexity of compliance reporting and detection of unauthorized activities by automating the collection, consolidation and analysis of enterprise audit data;  

   •    Oracle Active Data Guard software, which is designed to improve database performance and reliability by offloading resource-intensive activities from a production database to one or more synchronized standby databases;  

   •    Oracle Spatial software, which is designed to manage geospatial data and provide the facilities to location enable business applications with advanced geographic information system (GIS) capabilities; and  

   •    Oracle In-Memory Database Cache software, which is designed to improve application performance by caching or storing critical parts of Oracle Database in the main memory of the application tier.  

In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, we also offer a portfolio of specialized database software products to address particular customer requirements including:  

   •    MySQL, the world’s most popular open source database, which is a simple-to-use, relational database often used to power high volume applications such as websites and web-based applications;  

   •    Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized, relational database that is designed to deliver low latency and high throughput for applications requiring real-time performance in industries such as communications, financial services and defense; and  

   •    Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source; embeddable; relational, XML and key-value (NoSQL) databases that is designed to allow developers to incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within their applications and devices.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Middleware Software  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software is a broad family of application infrastructure software products that is designed to form a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy, secure, access and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. Built on the Java technology platform, Oracle Fusion Middleware suites and products can be used as a foundation for custom, packaged and composite applications.  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software is designed to protect customers’ IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle database, middleware and applications software through its “hot-pluggable” architecture (which enables customers to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware software within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry standards such as Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) and Business Process Execution Language (BPEL), among others.  

By using Oracle Fusion Middleware software, we believe our customers can better adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically, Oracle Fusion Middleware software is designed to enable customers to integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence; all while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware software supports multiple development languages and tools, which enables developers to build and deploy web services, websites, portals and web-based applications. Oracle Fusion Middleware software is used to support Oracle Applications, other enterprise applications, ISVs that build their own applications and business processes that span multiple application environments.  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software is available in various software products and suites, including the following functional areas:  

   •    Application Server and Application Grid;  

   •    Service-Oriented Architecture and Business Process Management;  

   •    Business Intelligence;  

   •    Identity and Access Management;  

   •    Data Integration;  

   •    Content Management;  

   •    Portals and User Interaction; and  

   •    Development Tools.  

Application Server and Application Grid  

The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware software is Oracle WebLogic Server—an application server that is compliant with the Java Enterprise Edition specification. Oracle WebLogic Server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. Oracle JRockit is a high performance Java Virtual Machine designed to run Java applications on multi-core processors with higher and more predictable performance. Oracle Coherence is an in-memory data grid solution designed to reduce latency and improve performance and scalability of business applications by allowing applications to access data in-memory.  

In addition, we offer Oracle Tuxedo, which runs legacy, mainframe, and non-Java applications written in the C, C++, and COBOL languages that have transaction reliability, scalability and performance requirements. Oracle GlassFish Server enhances the value of Oracle Fusion Middleware software for developers by accelerating development practices and decreasing application time-to-market.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Service-Oriented Architecture and Business Process Management  

Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is a software development and architecture methodology that creates a modular, re-usable approach to applications development; makes it easier to integrate systems with each other; and reduces the need for costly custom development. Oracle SOA Suite is a suite of middleware software products used to create, deploy, and manage applications on a Service-Oriented Architecture including Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules, Oracle Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Service Bus. Oracle Business Process Management Suite is a suite of software designed to enable business and IT professionals to design, implement, automate, and evolve business processes and workflow within and across organizations. Oracle SOA Governance is designed to maintain the security and integrity of our customers’ SOA deployments.  

Business Intelligence  

Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) is a comprehensive set of analytic software products designed to provide customers with the information they need to make better business decisions. Oracle’s software Business Intelligence products include Oracle BI Suite Enterprise Edition, a comprehensive query and analysis server; Oracle Essbase, an online analytical processing (OLAP) server; Oracle BI Publisher, a self-service production and operational reporting tool; and Oracle Real-Time Decisions, a real-time data classification and optimization solution. Users can access these tools from a variety of user interfaces including browser-based interactive dashboards; ad hoc query and analysis; proactive detection and alerts integrated with e-mail; Microsoft Office integration including support for Excel, Word, and PowerPoint; and mobile analytics for mobile and smart phones.  

Identity and Access Management  

Oracle’s identity and access management software products are designed to enable customers to manage internal and external users, secure corporate information from potential software threats and streamline compliance initiatives while lowering the total cost of their security and compliance initiatives. These software products include a lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) directory service to store and manage user identities and policies; identity provisioning to provision users and roles in multiple enterprise applications and systems; access management to manage access control and entitlements for customers, partners, and employees; and identity analytics products to audit and identify users attempting to access systems for which they are not authorized.  

Data Integration  

Oracle’s data integration offerings consist of Oracle GoldenGate, Oracle Data Integrator, and Oracle Data Quality products. Oracle GoldenGate is a high performance data movement and continuous availability solution designed to capture transaction records on one system and to move and apply them to other systems with low impact on system and network performance. Oracle Data Integrator is an extract-transform-load (ETL) solution that enables users to extract data from one system, transform it from the source system’s format to a target system’s format, and load it into the target system (such as a data warehouse). Oracle Data Quality enables users to profile data and to clean it using a variety of automated matching and cleansing rules making the data more reliable and more accurate.  

Content Management  

Oracle Content Management is an enterprise content management software suite that is designed to enable users to capture, manage, and publish information that is either unstructured, not easily readable or has not been stored, including documents, images, audio, video, and a wide variety of other forms of digital content. Oracle Content Management is designed to provide customers with a highly scalable document management repository; web content management to publish information to websites and portals; digital asset management to manage and deliver digital content; imaging and process management to capture and process paper documents and document related business processes; and records management to archive and retain documents and electronic records. Oracle Content Management is integrated with business applications to automatically capture and process electronic and paper documents such as invoices, accounts receivable receipts, and sales order documents from these applications.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Portals and User Interaction  

Oracle WebCenter Suite is a standards-based enterprise portal software product that is designed to enable external and employee users to efficiently find the information they need from websites and business applications within the organization; to create collaborative websites, online workspaces, discussion forums, integrated real-time presence and web conferencing to share information with others; and to use a variety of emerging technologies such as really simple syndication (RSS) feeds, tag clouds, linking and search to personalize information delivery. Oracle WebCenter Suite can be used to build a variety of web-based systems including extranet websites, intranet portals, task-oriented collaborative applications, and team communities.  

Development Tools  

Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software environment that is designed to facilitate rapid development of a variety of different types of applications using Oracle Fusion Middleware software and popular open source technologies. Oracle JDeveloper software provides support for developing Java applications; web services, composite SOA applications and business processes; rich user interfaces using AJAX/DHTML and Flash technologies; and websites using popular scripting languages. Oracle JDeveloper software also provides comprehensive application lifecycle management facilities including modeling, building, debugging, unit testing, profiling, and optimizing applications and is integrated with the Oracle Application Development Framework software, which provides a declarative framework for building business applications, and popular open source tools, including Eclipse and NetBeans.  

Java  

Oracle Fusion Middleware software products and our next-generation Oracle Fusion Applications are built on our Java technology platform, which we believe is a key technology advantage for our business.  

Java is the computer industry’s most widely-used software development language and is viewed as a global standard. The Java programming language and platform together represent one of the most popular and powerful development environments in the world, one that is used by millions of developers globally and on which many of the world’s applications run.  

Java is designed to enable developers to write software on a single platform and run it on many different platforms, independent of operating system and hardware architecture. There is a large, global community of Java developers and Java has been adopted by both ISVs that have built their products on Java and by enterprise organizations building custom applications or consuming Java-based ISV products.  

For customers, the Java platform is designed to enable a variety of compatible applications, independent of their vendor, and to support a global community of Java developers, support engineers, and knowledge bases that can help customers reduce the risk of and time to deployment as well as the ongoing cost of ownership and maintenance.  

There are three primary editions of Java (Standard, Enterprise and Micro) that support a broad spectrum of usage ranging from mobile phones to desktop computers to server applications. Java can also be found embedded in a variety of devices and machines, including printers, cars, airplanes, tablets, DVD players, set-top boxes, pens, smart meters and bank ATM machines; and JavaCard is designed for specialized use in smart cards. Certain of our products are built primarily to enable customers to run Java applications on and with them, such as Oracle WebLogic Server and Oracle Coherence. Many more of our products are built with and rely on Java, such as the Oracle Fusion Middleware software product family and Oracle Fusion Applications. 

We expect to continue to innovate and invest in Java technology for the benefit of customers and the Java community.  

We also offer a selection of software products that are complementary to our database and middleware products, including Oracle Enterprise Manager management tools and Oracle VM server virtualization software.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Oracle Enterprise Manager  

Oracle Enterprise Manager is Oracle’s integrated enterprise IT management solution. Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to combine the self-management capabilities built into Oracle products with its business-driven IT management capabilities to deliver a holistic approach to IT management across the entire Oracle technology portfolio including Oracle Database and Oracle Exadata, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Oracle Exalogic, Oracle Applications, Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Oracle VM, and our complete hardware portfolio including our servers, storage and networking. Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to manage Oracle’s technology portfolio whether deployed using traditional architectures or in cloud computing architectures. In both cases, Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to provide a complete IT lifecycle management approach, including configuring elements of an IT environment; monitoring service levels; diagnosing and troubleshooting problems; patching and provisioning IT environments; managing compliance reporting; and providing change management in a unified way across physical and virtualized IT environments.  

Oracle VM  

Oracle VM is server virtualization software for both Oracle SPARC and x86-based servers and supports both Oracle and non-Oracle applications. Oracle VM software is designed to enable different applications to share a single physical system for higher utilization and efficiency and simplify software deployment by enabling pre-configured software images to be created and rapidly deployed without installation or configuration errors.  

Applications Software  

Oracle Applications are designed using an industry standards-based, integrated architecture to manage and automate customers’ core business functions, support customer choice, help to reduce risk, cost and complexity of customers’ IT infrastructures, and enable customers to differentiate their businesses using our technologies. Through a focused strategy of investments in internal research and development and strategic acquisitions, we also provide industry-specific solutions for customers in over 20 industries, including communications, engineering and construction, financial services, health services, manufacturing, public sector, retail and utilities. New software license revenues from applications software represented 28% of our new software license revenues in each of fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

Our Oracle Applications strategy provides customers with a secure path to adopt our latest technology advances that are designed to improve the customer software experience and enable better business performance. Central to that strategy is our Applications Unlimited program, which is our commitment to customer choice through our investment and innovation in our current applications offerings. Our next-generation Oracle Fusion Applications build upon this commitment and are designed to work with and evolve customer investments in their existing applications portfolio. Oracle Lifetime Support helps ensure customers will continue to have a choice in upgrade paths based on their enterprises’ needs.  

Oracle Fusion Applications  

Oracle Fusion Applications are a comprehensive suite of modular, next-generation software applications that include enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), supply chain management (SCM) and enterprise project portfolio management (EPPM). Oracle Fusion Applications are designed using commercially-available technology standards such as Java, BPEL and others, existing best practices and the principles of SOA. With their tailored user experience and embedded analytical capabilities, Oracle Fusion Applications are designed to increase user productivity and allow customers to manage functions across different environments more effectively. Using a SOA approach, Oracle Fusion Applications are engineered to provide customers with more flexibility to innovate and adopt next-generation technologies at their own pace, whether via one module, a product family or an entire suite. Oracle Fusion Applications are engineered to be cloud-ready and thus offer flexible deployment options, including private clouds, public clouds or Oracle Cloud Services.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Applications Unlimited  

Our Applications Unlimited program is Oracle’s commitment to offer customers that purchase software license updates and product support contracts a choice as to when, and if, to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own. Until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own, we protect their investments in their applications by offering them the ability to purchase software license updates and product support contracts for their existing products. Our applications are designed to help customers extend the benefits of their IT investments in our applications, reduce their investment risk, and support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs. For example, our Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open framework for creating adaptable, cross-application business processes. In addition, our applications software products are offered as integrated suites or on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are also available in multiple languages and support a broad range of country specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements.  

We strive to protect our customers’ investments in Oracle Applications by delivering new product releases that incorporate customer-specific and industry-specific innovations across product lines. Since announcing our Applications Unlimited program, we have delivered major releases on all applications product lines. Our applications software products combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity.  

Oracle Applications enable efficient management of core business functions, including:  

   •    Enterprise Resource Planning;  

   •    Customer Relationship Management;  

   •    Supply Chain Management;  

   •    Enterprise Performance Management (EPM);  

   •    Business Intelligence Applications (Analytic Applications);  

   •    Enterprise Project Portfolio Management;  

   •    Web Commerce; and  

   •    Industry-Specific Applications.  

Enterprise Resource Planning  

Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes, including: supply chain planning, manufacturing, logistics, order fulfillment, asset lifecycle management, purchasing, accounts receivable and payable, general ledger, cash and treasury management, travel and expense management, human resources, payroll, benefits, and talent management. Our ERP applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as self-service applications that enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service access to both transaction processing and critical business information.  

Customer Relationship Management  

We offer a suite of CRM applications that are engineered to help our customers manage their selling processes more efficiently, integrate marketing campaigns and content into their selling processes more effectively, and deliver high quality customer service across multiple channels including call centers, web and mobile devices. Our CRM products also provide many industry-specific features designed to support the specialized needs of users in key sectors, such as communications, consumer products, financial services, high technology, insurance, life sciences and the public sector. We also offer Oracle CRM On Demand, which is a subscription-based offering that provides customers with sales, marketing and services features of our CRM software in a cloud environment.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Supply Chain Management  

We offer a comprehensive set of SCM software products that span from demand management, order management, supply chain planning, sales and operations planning, procurement and sourcing to product development, manufacturing, transportation and warehouse management. Our SCM products are designed to provide our customers the ability to forecast and fulfill demand for their products through end-to-end integrated, yet modular software. Customers can use Oracle SCM products to predict demand and market requirements, manage the lifecycle of their products, innovate and adapt in response to volatile market conditions, align operations across global networks and deploy lean, mixed-mode manufacturing with integrated manufacturing execution systems that meet both discrete and process requirements.  

Enterprise Performance Management  

We offer a suite of EPM applications that are engineered to automate, integrate, and administer a broad range of financial and operational management processes within an organization. Our EPM applications enable organizations to define and model their financial structure; to define their operating plans and manage financial budgets; to allocate indirect revenues and costs to better understand business unit profitability; to consolidate and aggregate financial results from a variety of systems; and to manage the financial close and statutory reporting processes.  

Business Intelligence Applications (Analytic Applications)  

We also provide packaged business intelligence applications for ERP and CRM processes as well as industry-specific analytic applications. Each of our business intelligence applications features packaged data models; packaged ETL processes; packaged key performance indicators (KPIs); and packaged dashboards to deliver insight that is tailored for business processes. Our business intelligence applications are built on Oracle’s business intelligence technology and source data from multiple versions of Oracle CRM and ERP applications as well as from non-Oracle data sources. Our EPM and business intelligence applications together with our business intelligence technology allow us to offer our customers an integrated solution that spans planning and budgeting, financial management, operational analytics, and reporting.  

Enterprise Project Portfolio Management (EPPM)  

Our EPPM software products target project-intensive industries such as engineering and construction, aerospace and defense, utilities, oil and gas, manufacturing, professional services and project-intensive departments within other industries. Our EPPM products help companies propose, prioritize and select project investments and plan, manage and control the most complex projects and project portfolios.  

Web Commerce  

In fiscal 2011, we acquired Art Technology Group, Inc. (ATG), a leading provider of web commerce software and related subscription-based commerce optimization applications. The ATG solution is designed to enable enterprises to create an online customer experience with merchandising, marketing, content personalization, automated recommendations, and live-help services. By combining ATG’s software with Oracle’s CRM software, we offer a unified cross-channel commerce and CRM platform, which is designed to enable businesses to deliver a consistent experience across a variety of different customer points of contact including sales, marketing, service, contact center and the internet. This combined platform is designed to enable our customers to strengthen their customers’ loyalty, improve brand value, achieve better operating results, and increase business response time across online and traditional commerce environments.  

Industry-Specific Applications  

Oracle Applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries that we view as strategic to our future growth, including communications, education, energy, engineering and construction, financial services, healthcare, life sciences,  

12  

Table of Contents 

 manufacturing, professional services, public sector, retail, travel, transportation and utilities. For example, we offer the banking and financial services sector a suite of applications addressing cash management, trade, treasury, payments, lending, private wealth management, asset management, compliance, enterprise risk and business analytics, among others. We offer the retail sector software solutions designed to provide unified and actionable data among store, merchandising and financial operations. Our applications for consumer goods manufacturers are designed to provide them with the ability to build their brand against retail private label programs by engaging directly with the consumer. Our ability to offer applications to address industry-specific complex processes provides us an opportunity to expand our customers’ knowledge of our broader product offerings and address customer specific technology challenges.  

Software License Updates and Product Support  

We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current investments in Oracle software by offering proactive and personalized support services, including our Lifetime Support policy, and unspecified product enhancements and upgrades. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content through “My Oracle Support.” Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they acquire new software licenses and renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. Our software license updates and product support revenues represented 42%, 49% and 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Hardware Systems Business  

As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into the hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support.  

Hardware Systems Products  

Our customers demand a broad set of hardware systems solutions to manage growing amounts of data and computational requirements, to meet increasing compliance and regulatory demands, and to reduce energy, space, and operational costs. To meet these demands, we have a wide variety of innovative hardware systems offerings, including servers and storage products, networking components, operating systems and other hardware-related software. Our hardware systems component products are designed to be “open,” or to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. We have also engineered our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when our hardware and software products are combined as engineered systems, as with Oracle Exadata and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud. By combining our server and storage hardware with our software, our open, integrated products better address customer requirements for performance, scalability, reliability, security, ease of management, and lower total cost of ownership. Our hardware systems products represented 12% and 6% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Servers  

We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their reliability, security and scalability; and by the customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized systems). Our midsize and large servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments at any scale. We have a long-standing relationship with Fujitsu Limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our SPARC server components and products.  

13  

Table of Contents 

We also offer a wide range of x86 servers. These x86 servers are primarily based on microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation (Intel) and are also compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems.  

We offer a line of products aimed at the unique needs of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and network equipment providers (NEPs). Rack-optimized systems and our blade product offerings combine high-density hardware architecture and system management software that OEMs find particularly useful in building their own solution architectures. Our NEP-certified Sun Netra systems are designed to meet the specialized needs of NEPs.  

Storage 

Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers’ mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software, and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our storage products are designed to improve data availability by providing fast data access and dynamic data protection for restoration and secure archiving for compliance.  

Our tape storage product line includes StorageTEK libraries, drives, virtualization systems, media and device software. These products are intended to provide robust solutions for both long-term preservation and near-term protection, of customer data at a lower total cost of ownership.  

Our disk storage product lines include data center arrays, mid-range arrays, unified storage, network attached storage, and entry level systems. We also offer software for management and efficient resource utilization and virtualization of storage resources.  

Networking  

We create networking components and products designed to efficiently connect and deploy server and storage clusters in data centers. The development of our networking products includes both hardware and software development for the InfiniBand and Ethernet technologies that are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools.  

Oracle Solaris and Oracle Linux Operating Systems and Hardware-Related Software  

The Oracle Solaris operating system is designed to provide a reliable, secure and scalable operating system environment through significant core feature development in kernel, networking, security, and file system technologies as well as close integration with hardware features. This design provides us with an ability to combine Oracle Solaris with our own hardware components to achieve certain performance and efficiency advantages in comparison to our competitors. The Oracle Solaris operating system is based on the UNIX operating system, but is unique among UNIX systems in that it is available on our SPARC servers and x86 servers that are substantially based upon microprocessors from Intel. We also support Oracle Solaris deployed on other companies’ hardware products.  

The Oracle Linux operating system with Oracle’s Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel is a Linux operating system for enterprise workloads including databases, middleware and applications. Oracle Linux supports x86 based systems.  

In addition to Oracle Solaris and Oracle Linux operating systems, we also develop a range of other hardware-related software, including development tools, compilers, management tools for servers and storage, diagnostic tools, virtualization and file systems.  

Hardware Systems Support  

Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our server and storage products, such as Oracle Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. We continue to focus on  

14  

Table of Contents 

 identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware systems products. Hardware systems support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware systems products fees. Our hardware systems support revenues represented 7% and 3% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Services Business  

Our services business consists of consulting, Cloud Services and education.  

Consulting  

Oracle Consulting is designed to help our customers more successfully deploy our products. Our consulting services include business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. Together, these services are designed to help our customers achieve their business goals, reduce the risk associated with their IT initiatives, and maximize their return on investment. Oracle Consulting engages customers directly and provides specialized expertise to our global systems integrator partners. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, consisting of on-site consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers. Consulting revenues represented 8%, 10% and 14% of total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Cloud Services  

Our Cloud Services segment, which was formerly named On Demand, includes certain of our Oracle Cloud Services offerings and technology, and Advanced Customer Services. We believe that our Cloud Services offerings provide our customers with increased business performance, reduced risk, a predictable cost and more flexibility and choice in terms of service in order to maximize the performance of their Oracle software and hardware products and services.  

Oracle Cloud Services are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provides support services, both onsite and remote, to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services.  

Cloud Services revenues represented 4% of total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 3% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2010 and 2009.  

Education  

We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption and use of our software and hardware products and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Our training is provided through a variety of formats, including instructor-led classes at our education centers, live virtual training, self-paced online training, training via CD-ROM, private events and custom training. Our live virtual class offerings allow students anywhere in the world to receive real-time, interactive training online. In addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers, implementers, consultants and architects. Education revenues represented 1% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2011 and 2010 and 2% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009.  

Marketing and Sales  

We directly market and sell our products and services to businesses of many sizes and in many industries, government agencies and educational institutions. We also market, and sell our products through indirect channels. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

15  

Table of Contents 

In the United States, our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the country. Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries sell and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. Our international operations subject us to certain risks, which are more fully described in “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A. of this Annual Report. A summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle Partner Network. The Oracle Partner Network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. By offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle Partner Network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. We have enhanced direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future than they do currently.  

Seasonality and Cyclicality  

Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. See “Selected Quarterly Financial Data” in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins.  

Competition  

We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change.  

Our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems, which has led increasingly to our product offerings being viewed as a “stack” of software and hardware designed to work together in a standards-compliant environment. Our enterprise software and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from the most competitive companies in the world, including Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), SAP AG, and Intel, as well as many others. In addition, the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments regularly introduce new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. Our competitors range from companies offering broad IT solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. In addition, as we expand into new market segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. Moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions—including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines—which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories.  

16  

Table of Contents 

Key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things:  

   •    the broader “platform” competition between our industry standard Java technology platform and the .NET programming environment of Microsoft;  

   •    operating system competition among, primarily, our Oracle Solaris operating system, Microsoft’s Windows Server, UNIX (including HP-UX from HP and AIX from IBM) and Linux;  

   •    the adoption of SaaS, hosted or cloud software offerings;  

   •    the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors;  

   •    the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers;  

   •    products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their IT staff;  

   •    products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and  

   •    attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers.  

For more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

Manufacturing  

To produce our hardware systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. Our manufacturing processes are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a “build-to-order” methodology in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. Production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. For most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. For example, we have a long-standing relationship with Fujitsu Limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our SPARC server components and products. As a result, we continue to monitor the situation in Japan caused by the recent earthquake and tsunami and will continue to evaluate the resulting potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. Refer to “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A. of this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business.  

Research and Development  

We develop the substantial majority of our products internally. In addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. While we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. Research and development expenditures were $4.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.8 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 13% of total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 12% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2010 and 2009. Rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware markets in which we compete. We plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Employees  

As of May 31, 2011, we employed approximately 108,000 full-time employees, including approximately 27,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 6,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 25,000 in services, approximately 30,000 in research and development and approximately 10,000 in general and administrative positions. Of these employees, approximately 39,000 were located in the United States and approximately 69,000 were employed internationally. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers’ councils represent our employees.  

Available Information  

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers are listed below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Ellison, 66, has been Chief Executive Officer and a Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.  

Mr. Henley, 66, has served as Chairman of the Board since January 2004 and as a Director since June 1995. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004.  

Ms. Catz, 49, has been a President since January 2004, Chief Financial Officer most recently since April 2011 and has served as a Director since October 2001. She was previously Chief Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. Prior to being named President, she held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. She also currently serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.  

Mr. Hurd, 54, has been a President and served as a Director since September 2010. Prior to joining us, he served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of HP from September 2006 to August 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the Board of Directors of HP from April 2005 to August 2010.  

Mr. Fowler, 50, has been Executive Vice President, Systems since February 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Fowler served as Sun Microsystems, Inc.’s Executive Vice President, Systems Group from May 2006 to February 2010, as Executive Vice President, Network Systems Group from May 2004 to May 2006, as Chief Technology Officer, Software Group from July 2002 to May 2004 and Director, Corporate Development from July 2000 to July 2002.  

Mr. Kurian, 44, has been Executive Vice President, Product Development since July 2009. He served as Senior Vice President of Development from February 2001 until July 2009. Mr. Kurian worked in Oracle Server Technologies as Vice President of Development from March 1999 until February 2001. He also held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1996.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Ms. Daley, 52, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004, and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October 2001. She joined Oracle’s Legal Department in 1992.  

Mr. West, 49, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008 and was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to joining us, he served as Intuit Inc.’s Director of Accounting from August 2005 to March 2007. He also spent 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a partner.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors