Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends, including changes to our business as a result of our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in fiscal 2010. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.  

Business Overview  

We are the world’s largest enterprise software company and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software; applications software; and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products. Our products are built on industry standards and are engineered to work together or independently within existing customer information technology (IT), including private and public cloud computing, environments. We offer customers secure, reliable, and scalable integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve business efficiencies and more easily adapt to an organization’s unique needs, at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets.  

We believe our internal growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plans. An important element of our continued innovation and product strategy is to focus the engineering of our hardware and software products to make them work together more effectively and deliver improved computing performance, reliability and security to our customers. Our Oracle Exadata Database Machine and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud products exemplify this strategy and are currently two of our most important products. Both products combine certain of our hardware and software offerings to provide an engineered system that increases computing performance relative to our competitors’ products, creating time savings and operational cost advantages for our customers. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 we invested $4.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products and services.  

We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.  

We are organized into three businesses—software, hardware systems and services—which are further divided into seven operating segments. Each of these businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our three businesses and seven operating segments follows.  

Software Business  

Our software business, which represented 68%, 77% and 81% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software business’ total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our software products and software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development.  

36  

Table of Contents 

New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period (as provided in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q) provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 26%, 28% and 31% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The proportion of our new software license revenues relative to our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of our acquisition of Sun. Our new software license segment’s margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short-term. However, our new software license segment’s margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies that we have acquired.  

Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired.  

Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 42%, 49% and 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is our highest margin business unit. The proportion of our software license updates and product support revenues relative to our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of our acquisition of Sun. Support margins during fiscal 2011 were 86% and accounted for 70% of our total margins. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons:  

   •    substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal;  

   •    substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our support contract base; and  

   •    our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported.  

We recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $80 million, $86 million and $243 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts  

37  

Table of Contents 

 are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year.  

Hardware Systems Business  

As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 19% and 9% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and we expect that it will continue to add a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services or develop new hardware products and services.  

To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We are continuing to focus on reducing costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers that we rely on and a “build-to-order” manufacturing process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. In addition, we are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of new hardware products.  

Hardware Systems Products: Our hardware systems products consist primarily of computer server and storage product offerings and hardware-related software, including our Oracle Solaris operating system. Our hardware systems component products are designed to be “open,” or to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. We have also engineered our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when our hardware and software products are combined as engineered systems, as with Oracle Exadata and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud.  

We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their reliability, security, scalability and customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized systems). Our midsize and large servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments at any scale.  

We also offer a wide range of x86 servers. These x86 servers are primarily based on microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are also compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems.  

Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers’ mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software, and networking for mainframe and open systems environments.  

The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. We have enhanced direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future than they do currently.  

Our hardware systems products revenues, cost of hardware systems products and operating margins that we report are affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our hardware systems products, and our acquisitions and foreign currency  

38  

Table of Contents 

 fluctuations. In addition, our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Sun and by business combination accounting rules that required us to record acquired inventories from Sun at fair value, which resulted in an unfavorable impact to our expenses and operating margins as we sold these inventories to customers during fiscal 2010.  

We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large transactions could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report.  

Hardware Systems Support: Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our server and storage products, such as Oracle Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. The growth of our hardware systems support revenues is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, and the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts. All of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers’ decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems’ infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available.  

Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed through, and by the amortization of intangible assets resulting from, our acquisition of Sun. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisition of Sun to their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date by an aggregate of $148 million and $128 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. These amounts would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by Sun as a standalone entity. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the support periods.  

Services Business  

Our services business consists of consulting, Cloud Services and education. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we expanded and enhanced our customer base and services offerings, which we believe will increase our revenues and expenses in comparison to recent periods. Our services business, which represented 13%, 14% and 19% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, has significantly lower margins than our software business and what we have recently achieved from our hardware business. The proportion of our services revenues relative to our total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of our acquisition of Sun.  

Consulting: Our consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically segmentable from the products with which they relate and are performed after the customer’s purchase of the products. Our consulting revenues are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of our product revenues, in particular the new software license sales of our application products. To the extent we are able to grow our products revenues, in particular our software application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to eventually grow our consulting revenues.  

Cloud Services: Our Cloud Services segment, which was formerly named On Demand, includes certain of our Oracle Cloud Services offerings and technology, and Advanced Customer Services. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our Cloud Services offerings. Oracle Cloud Services are  

39  

Table of Contents 

 designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provides support services, both onsite and remote, to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. We believe that our Cloud Services offerings provide our customers with increased business performance, reduced risk, a predictable cost and more flexibility and choice in terms of service in order to maximize the performance of their Oracle software and hardware products and services. While we have grown the base of customers that purchase certain of our Cloud Services through our organic growth and the acquisition of Sun, we continue to focus on managing our expenses to increase our margins and margins as a percentage of our revenues. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our Cloud Services businesses to support current and future revenue growth, which historically has negatively impacted Cloud Services margins and could do so in the future.  

Education: The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our software and hardware products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Education revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our customers’ information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions.  

Acquisitions  

An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Art Technology Group, Inc. (ATG) and Phase Forward Incorporated (Phase Forward) in fiscal 2011 and Sun in fiscal 2010, among others. We believe our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information related to our recent acquisitions.  

We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:  

   •    Revenue Recognition  

   •    Business Combinations  

   •    Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments  

40  

Table of Contents 

   •    Accounting for Income Taxes  

   •    Legal and Other Contingencies  

   •    Stock-Based Compensation  

   •    Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed the below critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

Revenue Recognition  

Our sources of revenues include: (1) software, which includes new software license revenues and software license updates and product support revenues; (2) hardware systems, which includes the sale of hardware systems products including computer servers and storage products, and hardware systems support revenues; and (3) services, which include software and hardware related services including consulting, Cloud Services and education revenues.  

Revenue Recognition for Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Elements)  

New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support revenues. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the accounting guidance contained in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition, we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.  

For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenues when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) the sale price is fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Revenues that are not recognized at the time of sale because the foregoing conditions are not met are recognized when those conditions are subsequently met.  

Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example, in agreements with government entities where acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.  

The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option and are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements—Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Arrangements)  

We often enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both software related products and services from us at the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as software related multiple-element arrangements). Such software related multiple-element arrangements include the sale of our software products, software license updates and product support contracts and other software related services whereby software license delivery is followed by the subsequent or contemporaneous delivery of the other elements. For those software related multiple-element arrangements, we have applied the residual method to determine the amount of software license revenues to be recognized pursuant to ASC 985-605. Under the residual method, if fair value exists for undelivered elements in a multiple-element arrangement, such fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred with the remaining portion of the arrangement consideration recognized upon delivery of the software license or services arrangement. We allocate the fair value of each element of a software related multiple-element arrangement based upon its fair value as determined by our vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE—described further below), with any remaining amount allocated to the software license.  

Revenue Recognition for Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Elements)  

Revenues from the sale of hardware systems products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of computer servers and storage products. Our revenue recognition policy for these nonsoftware deliverables is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of hardware systems products and hardware systems related services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.  

Revenues from the sales of hardware products are recognized when: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) we deliver the products and passage of the title to the buyer occurs; (3) the sale price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is reasonably assured. Revenues that are not recognized at the time of sale because the foregoing conditions are not met are recognized when those conditions are subsequently met. When applicable, we reduce revenues for estimated returns or certain other incentive programs where we have the ability to sufficiently estimate the effects of these items. Where an arrangement is subject to acceptance criteria and the acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.  

Our hardware systems support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage products and can also include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Hardware systems support contracts are entered into at the customer’s option and are recognized ratably over the contractual term of the arrangements.  

Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements—Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Arrangements)  

Beginning in fiscal 2010, we have applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and Accounting Standards Update 2009-14, Software (Topic 985)—Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements to our multiple-element arrangements.   

We enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both nonsoftware related products and services from us at the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements). Each element within a nonsoftware multiple-element arrangement is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting provided the following criteria are met: the delivered products or services have value to the customer on a standalone basis; and for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services, delivery or performance of the undelivered product or service is considered probable and is substantially controlled by us. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if the product or service is sold separately by us or another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our revenue  

42  

Table of Contents 

 arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products. Where the aforementioned criteria for a separate unit of accounting are not met, the deliverable is combined with the undelivered element(s) and treated as a single unit of accounting for the purposes of allocation of the arrangement consideration and revenue recognition. For those units of accounting that include more than one deliverable but are treated as a single unit of accounting, we generally recognize revenues over the delivery period. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate revenue to hardware systems and services based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.  

For our nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements, we allocate revenue to each element based on a selling price hierarchy at the arrangement inception. The selling price for each element is based upon the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE if available, third party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price (ESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE are available (a description as to how we determine VSOE, TPE and ESP is provided below). If a tangible hardware systems product includes software, we determine whether the tangible hardware systems product and the software work together to deliver the product’s essential functionality and, if so, the entire product is treated as a nonsoftware deliverable. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each of the nonsoftware deliverables using the relative selling prices of each unit based on the aforementioned selling price hierarchy. We limit the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to an amount that is not contingent upon future delivery of additional products or services or meeting of any specified performance conditions.  

To determine the selling price in multiple-element arrangements, we establish VSOE of selling price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately and for software license updates and product support and hardware systems support, based on the renewal rates offered to customers. For nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements, TPE is established by evaluating similar and interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone arrangements with similarly situated customers. If we are unable to determine the selling price because VSOE or TPE doesn’t exist, we determine ESP for the purposes of allocating the arrangement by reviewing historical transactions, including transactions whereby the deliverable was sold on a standalone basis and considering several other external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices including discounting, margin objectives, competition, the geographies in which we offer our products and services, the type of customer (i.e. distributor, value added reseller, government agency and direct end user, among others) and the stage of the product lifecycle. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration our pricing model and go-to-market strategy. As our, or our competitors’, pricing and go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to our determination of VSOE, TPE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements could differ materially from our results in the current period. Selling prices are analyzed on an annual basis or more frequently if we experience significant changes in our selling prices.  

Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to both Software and Nonsoftware Elements  

Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements—Arrangements with Software and Nonsoftware Elements  

We also enter into multiple-element arrangements that may include a combination of our various software related and nonsoftware related products and services offerings including hardware systems products, hardware systems support, new software licenses, software license updates and product support, consulting, Cloud Services and education. In such arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the nonsoftware elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group following the guidance in ASC 985-605 and our policies as described above. After the arrangement consideration has been allocated to the elements, we account for each respective element in the arrangement as described above.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Other Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to Software and Nonsoftware Elements  

Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts and are included as a part of our services business. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as services transactions as defined in ASC 985-605. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenues should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e. consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or “not to exceed” fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final acceptance from the customer that the services have been completed. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes.  

Our Cloud Services offerings are comprised of Oracle Cloud Services and Advanced Customer Services and are also a part of our services business. Oracle Cloud Services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying new software licenses or hardware systems products and services. Oracle Cloud Services are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provides support services, both onsite and remote, to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Depending upon the nature of the arrangement, revenues from Cloud Services are recognized as services are performed or ratably over the term of the service period, which is generally one year or less.  

Education revenues are also a part of our services business and include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered.  

If an arrangement contains multiple elements and does not qualify for separate accounting for the product and service transactions, then new software license revenues and/or hardware systems products revenues, including the costs of hardware systems products, are generally recognized together with the services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any bundled software, hardware systems and services arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license or hardware systems product fees; (2) where consulting services include significant modification or customization of the software or hardware systems product or are of a specialized nature and generally performed only by Oracle; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract or hardware systems product contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license or hardware systems product payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate revenues to software and nonsoftware elements based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.  

We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing “fiscal funding” or “termination for convenience” provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible  

44  

Table of Contents 

 cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the “essential use” of the software or hardware systems products and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity.  

We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition.  

While most of our arrangements for sales within our businesses include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables.  

In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for sale of our hardware systems products. These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users. The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery, if all the other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  

Our customers include several of our suppliers and occasionally, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have sold our products to these same companies (Concurrent Transactions). Software license agreements or sales of hardware systems that occur within a three- month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any sales transaction, at terms we consider to be at arm’s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues or hardware systems product revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations.  

Business Combinations  

In fiscal 2010, we adopted ASC 805, Business Combinations, which revised the accounting guidance that we were required to apply for our acquisitions in comparison to prior fiscal years. The underlying principles are similar to the previous guidance and require that we recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, support obligations assumed, estimated restructuring liabilities and pre-acquisition contingencies. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain.  

Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to:  

   •    future expected cash flows from software license sales, hardware systems product sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents;  

   •    expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed;  

   •    the acquired company’s brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio; and  

   •    discount rates.  

Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.  

In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of both software license updates and product support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. The estimated fair values of these support obligations are determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the products acquired. The sum of these costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. We also do not include the estimated research and development costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $80 million, $86 million and $243 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amounts of $148 million and $128 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we intend to focus our efforts on renewing acquired hardware systems support contracts. To the extent software support or hardware systems support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.  

In connection with a business combination, we estimate costs associated with restructuring plans committed to by our management. Restructuring costs are typically comprised of employee severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by our management, but may be refined in subsequent periods. We account for costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company separately from the business combination. These costs are accounted for as one-time termination and exit costs pursuant to ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. A liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in our consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the fair value of facility restructuring activities, assumptions are applied regarding estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This may require us to revise our initial estimates which may materially affect our results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made.  

46  

Table of Contents 

For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date) in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we include these contingencies as a part of the purchase price allocation and, if so, to determine their estimated amounts.  

If we determine that a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) is probable in nature and estimable as of the acquisition date, we record our best estimate for such a contingency as a part of the preliminary purchase price allocation. We often continue to gather information for and evaluate our pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period and if we make changes to the amounts recorded or if we identify additional pre-acquisition contingencies during the measurement period, such amounts will be included in the purchase price allocation during the measurement period and, subsequently, in our results of operations.  

In addition, uncertain tax positions’ and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date and we reevaluate these items quarterly with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period and we continue to collect information in order to determine their estimated values. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the uncertain tax positions’ estimated value or tax related valuation allowances, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions’ and tax related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments  

We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other. The provisions of ASC 350 require that a two-step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.  

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, did not result in an impairment charge, nor did we record any goodwill impairment in fiscal 2010 or 2009.  

We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. Recoverability of finite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made.  

Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates as to how much of our foreign earnings will be distributed to the U.S. or tax legislation that limits or restricts the amount of undistributed foreign earnings that we consider indefinitely reinvested outside the United States could materially impact our income tax provision and effective tax rate.  

We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, historical earnings, taxable income in prior years, if carryback is permitted under the law, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination, or goodwill would be adjusted at our final determination of the valuation allowance related to an acquisition within the measurement period. If we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance as an adjustment to earnings at such time.  

We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known, which can materially impact our effective tax rate.  

The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax related contingencies assumed as a part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above. For those tax related contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we account for these uncertain tax issues pursuant to ASC 740, Income Taxes, which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for  

48  

Table of Contents 

 our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, judicial rulings, refinement of estimates or realization of earnings or deductions that differ from our estimates. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences generally will impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties.  

In addition, as a part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period that any impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the purchase price allocation process. We have taken into account the allocation of these identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities.  

Legal and Other Contingencies  

We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. A description of our accounting policies associated with contingencies assumed as a part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above. For legal and other contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we accrue a liability for an estimated loss if the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether the amount of an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time the accruals are made. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

We account for share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock purchase plans in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation, which requires that share-based payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. We recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which is generally four years.  

We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately expect to vest and to reduce stock-based compensation expense for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the expense recognition period. Although we estimate the rate of future forfeitures upon historical experience, actual forfeitures in the future may differ. To the extent our actual forfeitures are different than our estimates, we record a true-up for the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such true-ups could materially affect our operating results. Additionally, we also consider on a quarterly basis whether there have been any significant changes in facts and circumstances that would affect our expected forfeiture rate.  

We estimate the fair values of employee stock options using a Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model. The fair value of an award is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options. The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of our publicly traded, longest-term options in order to estimate future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options, we have used historical rates of  

49  

Table of Contents 

 employee groups by seniority of job classification. Our expected dividend rate is based upon an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors. The aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and changes to these estimates will cause the fair values of our stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense that we record to vary.  

We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of stock-based compensation recognized and the fair values attributable to the vested portion of stock awards assumed in connection with a business combination, at the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Because the deferred tax assets we record are based upon the stock-based compensation expenses in a particular jurisdiction, the aforementioned inputs that affect the fair values of our stock awards may also indirectly affect our income tax expense. In addition, differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, the calculated shortfall reduces our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is computed in accordance with the alternative transition method pursuant to ASC 718.  

To the extent we change the terms of our employee stock-based compensation programs, experience market volatility in the pricing of our common stock that increases the implied volatility calculation of our publicly traded, longest-term options, refine different assumptions in future periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our current estimates, or assume stock awards from acquired companies that are different in nature than our stock award arrangements, amongst other potential impacts, the stock-based compensation expense that we record in future periods and the tax benefits that we realize may differ significantly from what we have recorded in previous reporting periods.  

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future results of operations could be materially affected.  

Results of Operations  

Impact of Acquisitions  

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of Sun in our third quarter of fiscal 2010 and, to a lesser extent, our acquisitions of ATG during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and Phase Forward during the first quarter of fiscal 2011.  

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of Sun in our third quarter of fiscal 2010.  

In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010, and fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products to the growth in new software license revenues, software license updates and product support revenues, hardware systems products revenues (as applicable) and hardware systems support revenues (as applicable) for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition date. We also are able to quantify the total incremental expenses associated with our hardware systems products and hardware systems support operating segments. The incremental contributions of our other acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments’ revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented.  

50  

Table of Contents 

We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons:  

   •    the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and  

   •    although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we strive to renew hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as software license updates and product support deferred revenues and hardware systems support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew.  

Constant Currency Presentation  

Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Annual Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2010, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2010, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.41 million in fiscal 2011 (using 1.41 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.22 million in fiscal 2010 (using 1.22 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the fiscal 2011 results using the fiscal 2010 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Total Revenues and Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa  

 (2)   Asia Pacific includes Japan  

 * Not meaningful  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Our total revenues increased in fiscal 2011 due to $4.7 billion of incremental revenue contribution from our hardware systems business and significant increases in our software and services businesses’ revenues. Our total revenues growth across all of our businesses in fiscal 2011 was favorably affected by a full year of revenue contributions from Sun as compared to our fiscal 2010 operating results, for which Sun’s revenue contributions were limited to only a portion of the fiscal 2010 period. In addition, our software business revenues increased as a result of the growth in our new software license revenues and our software license updates and product support revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 29% and APAC contributed 16% to our total revenues growth.  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total operating expenses in fiscal 2011 was due to a full year of expense contributions from Sun to our fiscal 2011 operating results, including increased expenses pertaining to hardware systems products sold and related hardware systems support offerings, additional employee related expenses, and an increase in intangible asset amortization. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in restructuring expenses relating to our Sun Restructuring Plan and certain other Oracle-based restructuring plans, and were also favorably affected by a $120 million benefit related to the recovery of legal costs, and certain other insurance recoveries in fiscal 2011.  

On a constant currency basis, our operating margin increased during fiscal 2011 due to our total revenues growth. Our operating margin as a percentage of revenues remained flat in fiscal 2011 as our revenues and expenses grew at approximately the same rates.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, total revenues increased in fiscal 2010 due to an estimated $2.8 billion revenue contribution from Sun, primarily in our hardware systems business, and an increase in our total software revenues resulting from growth in our new software licenses revenues and our software license updates and product support revenues. These increases were partially offset by a constant currency decrease in our total services revenues that we believe was caused by weaker demand for IT services due to the deterioration in global economic conditions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 32% and APAC contributed 13% to our total revenues growth in fiscal 2010.  

Excluding the unfavorable effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total operating expenses in fiscal 2010 was due to additional operating expenses incurred as a result of our acquisition of Sun and were of a similar nature as those noted in the fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 discussion above. In addition, we also incurred increased restructuring expenses resulting from our Sun Restructuring Plan and legacy Oracle-based restructuring plans. These increases were partially offset by expense reductions in our legacy Oracle-based operations including expense reductions in our services business, reductions in bad debt expenses due to improved collections and reductions to travel expenses due to cost management initiatives.  

On a constant currency basis, our operating margin increased during fiscal 2010 due to higher revenues from our software business, partially offset by post-combination operating losses from Sun that related to amortization of intangible assets, acquisition related and other expenses and restructuring expenses. Our operating margin as a percentage of revenues declined in fiscal 2010 due to the aforementioned post-combination expense contributions from Sun.  

Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges  

To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under “Impact of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.  

Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other significant expense items:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $80 million, $86 million and $243 million in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amounts of $148 million and $128 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Approximately $29 million, $9 million and $2 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized during fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of these business combination accounting rules. In addition, approximately $30 million and $11 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems  

53  

Table of Contents 

 support contracts assumed will not be recognized during fiscal 2012 and 2013, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by Sun as an independent entity. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period.  

 (2)   Represents the effects of fair value adjustments to our inventories acquired from Sun that were sold to customers in the post-combination period. Business combination accounting rules require us to account for inventories assumed from our acquisitions at their fair values. The $29 million included in the hardware systems products expenses line in the table above is intended to adjust these expenses to the hardware systems products expenses that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as an independent entity upon the sale of these inventories. If we acquire inventories in future acquisitions, we will be required to assess their fair values, which may result in fair value adjustments to those inventories.  

 (3)   Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of May 31, 2011, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (4)   Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement period or purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses, net.  

 (5)   Substantially all restructuring expenses during fiscal 2011 relate to employee severance, facility exit costs and contract termination costs in connection with our Sun Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses during fiscal 2010 primarily relate to costs incurred pursuant to our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan and Sun Restructuring Plan. Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

 (6)   Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those options and restricted stock-based awards.  

 (7)   The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 25.3% for fiscal 2011 instead of 25.1%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, primarily due to differences in jurisdictional tax rates, the related tax benefits attributable to our restructuring expenses and the income tax effects related to our acquired tax exposures. Income tax effects were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 27.1% for fiscal 2010 instead of 25.6%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, due to similar reasons as those noted for the fiscal 2011 differences. Income tax effects were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 28.7% for fiscal 2009 instead of 28.6%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, due to the exclusion of the tax effect of an adjustment to our non-current deferred tax liability associated with acquired intangible assets.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Software Business  

Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment.  

New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, total new software license revenues increased by 19% in fiscal 2011 due to growth across all major regions and product types and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 63%, EMEA contributed 21% and Asia Pacific contributed 16% to our new software license revenues growth during fiscal 2011.  

In constant currency, database and middleware revenues and applications revenues increased by 19% and 20%, respectively, in fiscal 2011 primarily due to growth resulting from improved customer demand, our sales force’s execution and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, Sun contributed $398 million in growth to our database and middleware revenues through the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the one year anniversary of our acquisition) and our other recent acquisitions contributed $40 million during fiscal 2011. In reported currency, our recent acquisitions contributed $191 million to the growth in our applications revenues during fiscal 2011.  

55  

Table of Contents 

In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by 36% in fiscal 2011 and represented 54% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2011 in comparison to 49% in fiscal 2010.  

Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total software sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to higher employee related and other operating expenses resulting from a full year of expense contributions from Sun to our fiscal 2011 operating results and higher variable compensation expenses resulting from higher revenues.  

Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues increased at a faster rate than our expenses.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total new software license revenues increased by 4% in fiscal 2010 due to growth in the Americas region and incremental revenues from our acquisitions.  

In constant currency, database and middleware revenues and applications revenues increased by 4% and 5% in fiscal 2010, respectively, primarily due to growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 resulting from improved customer demand, our sales force’s execution and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, our acquisition of Sun contributed $188 million, and other recent acquisitions contributed $99 million to the growth in our database and middleware revenues during fiscal 2010. Our recent acquisitions contributed $39 million to our fiscal 2010 applications revenues growth.  

In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by 2% in fiscal 2010 and represented 49% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2010 in comparison to 50% in fiscal 2009.  

Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total new software license expenses increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher variable compensation expenses and related payroll taxes resulting from higher revenues and due to additional operating expenses as a result of the Sun acquisition. These increases were partially offset by lower travel and entertainment expenses and marketing communication expenses as a result of cost management initiatives.  

Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues increased at a faster rate than our expenses.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2011 as a result of new software licenses sold (with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts) during the trailing 4-quarter period, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from recent acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 54%, EMEA contributed 33% and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.  

In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2011 included incremental revenues of $240 million from Sun through the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the one year anniversary of our acquisition) and $80 million from our other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $80 million, $86 million and $243 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration.  

57  

Table of Contents 

On a constant currency basis, total software license updates and product support expenses increased due to an increase in salaries, variable compensation and benefits expenses that were primarily related to a full year’s contribution from Sun and certain other headcount increases and, to a lesser extent, an increase in bad debt expenses resulting from higher revenues.  

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased as our total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses, primarily as a result of a slight decline in amortization of intangible assets.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2010 for similar reasons as noted above. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 39% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.  

In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2010 included incremental revenues of $88 million from Sun and $56 million from our other recently acquired companies. As described above, the amounts of software license updates and product support revenues that we recognized in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 were affected by business combination accounting rules.  

On a constant currency basis, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased due to reductions in our bad debt expenses during fiscal 2010 and were partially offset by an increase in salary and benefits expenses from increased headcount, including headcount assumed from Sun.  

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.  

Hardware Systems Business  

As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business in fiscal 2010. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server and storage products. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consist of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

 * Not meaningful  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: The increases in hardware systems products revenues, expenses and total margin for fiscal 2011 were primarily attributable to the impact of Sun’s contributions to our operating results for the full fiscal 2011 period as compared to fiscal 2010, which included Sun’s contribution to our operating results for only a portion of the period. In fiscal 2010, our hardware systems products expenses and total margin were unfavorably impacted by $29 million of fair value adjustments made pursuant to business combination accounting rules for inventories we assumed from Sun and sold to customers in the post-combination period. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased as our total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from the Sun acquisition.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

 * Not meaningful  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: The increases in hardware systems support revenues and expenses in fiscal 2011 were primarily attributable to the impact of Sun’s contributions to our operating results for the full fiscal 2011 period as compared to fiscal 2010. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $148 million and $128 million that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as an independent entity were not recognized in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the future support periods.  

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased as our total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses.  

Services  

Services consist of consulting, Cloud Services and education.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in our consulting revenues in fiscal 2011 was due to revenue increases in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions and revenue contributions from our recently acquired companies, which were partially offset by a reduction in consulting revenues in the EMEA region.  

On a constant currency basis, our expenses remained relatively flat in fiscal 2011 as a reduction in salary and related expenses from reduced headcount was offset primarily by increases in external contractor expenses and variable compensation.  

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues increased during fiscal 2011 as our total revenues increased while our expenses remained relatively flat.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, we believe the decline in our consulting revenues in fiscal 2010 was generally due to weaker demand resulting from reduced IT spending on services by our customers as a result of the deterioration of global economic conditions.  

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses decreased primarily due to a reduction in employee related expenses resulting from reduced headcount, including salaries, variable compensation and travel and entertainment and a reduction in external contractor related expenses.  

On a constant currency basis, consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2010 as our revenues declined at a greater rate than our expenses.  

Cloud Services: Cloud Services, which was formerly named On Demand, includes certain of our Oracle Cloud Services and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our Cloud Services offerings. Oracle Cloud Services’ managed services are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced  

61  

Table of Contents 

 Customer Services provides support services, both on-site and remote, to customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. The cost of providing our Cloud Services offerings consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

 (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in our Cloud Services revenues in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the full fiscal year impact of revenue contributions from our acquisition of Sun and, to a lesser extent, increased revenues from our legacy Advanced Customer Services and legacy Oracle Cloud Services offerings. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 42% and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in our Cloud Services revenues.  

On a constant currency basis, Cloud Services expenses increased primarily due to additional employee related expenses associated with a full fiscal year of expense contributions from Sun and higher third party contractor expenses that supported the increase in our revenues.  

On a constant currency basis, both Cloud Services margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during fiscal 2011 as our total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in our Cloud Services revenues was primarily due to revenue contributions from Sun and increased revenues from our legacy Advanced Customer Services offerings. These increases were partially offset by modestly lower revenues in our legacy Oracle Cloud Services business. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 11%, EMEA contributed 78% and Asia Pacific contributed 11% to the increase in our Cloud Services revenues.  

On a constant currency basis, Cloud Services expenses increased primarily due to Sun and were partially offset by lower expenses from our legacy Cloud Services operations, primarily reduced employee related expenses.  

On a constant currency basis, Cloud Services margin increased primarily due to expense reductions in our legacy Cloud Services operations, while margin as a percentage of revenues was flat.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: On a constant currency basis, the increases in education revenues, expenses and total margin in fiscal 2011 were primarily attributable to the full fiscal year impact of Sun’s contributions to our operating results. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 38%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific contributed 24% to the increase in our education revenues during fiscal 2011. On a constant currency basis, education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during fiscal 2011 as a result of our total revenues increasing at a faster rate than our total expenses.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, education revenues decreased in fiscal 2010 as we experienced weaker demand for our educational services that we believe was the result of reduced IT spending on services by our customers due to weaker global economic conditions, partially offset by additional revenues from our acquisition of Sun. On a constant currency basis, education expenses decreased in fiscal 2010 as we reduced our legacy Oracle-based employee related and external contractor expenses. These expense decreases were partially offset by additional expenses, primarily employee related, from our acquisition of Sun. On a constant currency basis, education margin decreased due to our revenue decrease, while margin as a percentage of revenues increased due to expense reductions.  

Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

63  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during fiscal 2011 primarily due to the impact of Sun’s contributions to our expenses for the full fiscal year, including additional employee related expenses such as salaries, variable compensation, benefits and stock-based compensation from increased headcount and, to a lesser extent, increased expenses related to facilities, and other infrastructure costs.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses similar to those noted above as a result of our acquisition of Sun. In addition, our expenses in fiscal 2010 were also impacted by higher benefits expenses due to an increase in deferred compensation plan obligations and were partially offset by lower external contractor expenses.  

General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2011 due to the impact of Sun’s contributions to our expenses for the full fiscal year, primarily additional employee related expenses, which were partially offset by a $120 million benefit related to the recovery of legal costs, and certain other insurance recoveries.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2010 due to additional employee related and professional services expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun, and higher stock-based compensation expenses primarily resulting from higher fair values of our legacy stock options that were recognized as expense in fiscal 2010.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not meaningful  

Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2011 in comparison to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the full fiscal year’s impact from the amortization of acquired intangible assets from Sun and, to a lesser extent, additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2010. These  

64  

Table of Contents 

 increases were partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized in fiscal 2011. Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2010 in comparison to fiscal 2009 due to additional amortization from acquired intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2009, including from our acquisition of Sun. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization.  

Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement periods or purchase price allocation periods have ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. As a result of our adoption of the FASB’s revised accounting standard for business combinations as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses were recorded as expenses in our fiscal 2011 and 2010 statements of operations that had been historically included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of our accounting for acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules, primarily direct transaction costs such as professional services fees.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased primarily due to the full fiscal year impact of Sun’s expense contributions, including higher transitional employee related expenses.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher employee related and professional services expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun.  

Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. Beginning in fiscal 2010, our adoption of the FASB’s revised accounting standard for business combinations required that, in connection with any prospective acquisition, we record involuntary employee termination and other exit costs associated with such acquisition to restructuring expenses in our consolidated financial statements. For additional information regarding our Oracle-based and acquired company restructuring plans, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2011 primarily related to our Sun Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to better align our cost structure as a result of our acquisition of Sun. To a lesser extent, we also incurred expenses associated with other Oracle-based plans, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to restructure and  

65  

Table of Contents 

 further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. We incurred restructuring expenses of $439 million in connection with the Sun Restructuring Plan in fiscal 2011. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the Sun Restructuring Plan are approximately $250 million, and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as the costs are incurred. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2010 were as noted below.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: During fiscal 2010, we recorded restructuring expenses primarily in connection with our Sun Restructuring Plan and our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2009 Plan). During fiscal 2009, we primarily incurred restructuring expenses associated with the 2009 Plan.  

Interest Expense:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2011 due to higher average borrowings resulting primarily from our issuance of $3.25 billion of senior notes in July 2010 (see additional discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report). This interest expense increase was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense associated with the maturities and repayments of $2.25 billion of senior notes, which matured in January 2011, and $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes and related variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements in May 2010.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2010 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009 and, to a lesser extent, our issuance of $2.8 billion of commercial paper notes in fiscal 2010 of which $881 million was outstanding as of May 31, 2010. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in interest expense associated with the maturities and repayments of $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes and related variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements in both May 2009 and May 2010.  

Non-Operating Income (Expense), net: Non-operating income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: We recorded non-operating income, net during fiscal 2011 in comparison to non-operating expense, net in fiscal 2010 primarily due to net foreign currency transaction losses incurred in fiscal 2010, which included a foreign currency remeasurement loss of $81 million resulting from the designation of our Venezuelan subsidiary as “highly inflationary” in accordance with the FASB’s ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters, and the subsequent devaluation of the Venezuelan currency by the Venezuelan government. In addition, our interest income increased in fiscal 2011 due to larger average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and other income, net increased in fiscal 2011 as a result of gains recognized on the sale of certain equity investments.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: We incurred non-operating expenses, net in fiscal 2010 in comparison to non-operating income, net in fiscal 2009 primarily due to net foreign currency losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary’s operations in fiscal 2010 as described above. Additionally, interest income decreased in fiscal 2010 due to a general decline in market interest rates that resulted in lower yields earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Both of the aforementioned items contributed to the change in fiscal 2010 but were partially offset by gains due to favorable changes in the values of our marketable securities that we classify as trading that were held to support our deferred compensation plan obligations.  

Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Provision for income taxes increased during fiscal 2011 due substantially to higher income before provision for income taxes and a reduction in the impact of favorable judicial decisions and settlements with worldwide taxing authorities.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Provision for income taxes decreased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to recent judicial decisions, including the March 2010 U.S. Court of Appeals Ninth Circuit ruling in Xilinx v. Commissioner, and settlements with various worldwide taxing authorities. These decreases were partially offset by higher income before provision for income taxes and by a lower proportion of our worldwide taxable income being earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Working capital: The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2011 in comparison to May 31, 2010 was primarily due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during fiscal 2011 and our issuance of $3.25 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2010. These increases were partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions, repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable.  

The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was primarily due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during fiscal 2010 and our issuance of $4.5 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2009. These increases were partially offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and other companies, the reclassification of $2.2 billion of our senior notes that were due and repaid in January 2011 as a current liability, $700 million of cash used to repay Sun’s legacy convertible notes shortly after the closing of the acquisition, repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders.  

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper,  

67  

Table of Contents 

 corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2011 in comparison to May 31, 2010 was primarily due to cash generated from our operating activities, our issuance of $3.25 billion of senior notes in July 2010 and $1.15 billion of short-term borrowings made pursuant to certain of our revolving credit agreements. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $20.4 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2011, $16.1 billion of which we consider indefinitely reinvested earnings outside the United States. These undistributed earnings would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. Assuming a full utilization of the foreign tax credits, the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings would be approximately $4.6 billion. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies during fiscal 2011, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased as of May 31, 2011 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates as of May 31, 2010. The aforementioned increases in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were partially offset by the repayment of $2.25 billion of our senior notes which matured in January 2011, the repayment of $881 million of commercial paper notes, the usage of $1.9 billion of net cash for acquisitions, repurchases of our common stock, and the payments of cash dividends to our stockholders.  

The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was primarily due to cash generated from our operating activities and our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in our reported cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances caused by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in comparison to certain major international currencies during fiscal 2010. Additionally, the increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances was partially offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and other companies, the repayment of $700 million of Sun’s legacy convertible notes, repurchases of our common stock, and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders.  

Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the most recently completed fiscal quarter, modestly increased to 55 days at May 31, 2011 in comparison to 53 days at May 31, 2010. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales, sales of hardware systems products and hardware systems support arrangements and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware systems products, taxes and leased facilities.  

Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2011 and 2010 primarily due to higher net income adjusted for amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and depreciation in each of these periods. These increases in fiscal 2011 and 2010 were partially offset by certain unfavorable changes in working capital, primarily increases in net trade receivables resulting from increases in revenues during our fiscal fourth quarters of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, in comparison to the prior fiscal years.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth.  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Net cash used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2011 due to a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our acquisitions) and a decrease in cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities), partially offset by an increase in net capital expenditures.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Net cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2010 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of Sun, and an increase in cash used to purchase marketable debt securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities).  

Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises.  

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010: Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2011 decreased due to a reduction in the amount of debt that we issued in fiscal 2011 ($1.15 billion borrowed pursuant to our revolving credit facilities and $3.25 billion of long-term senior notes issued) in comparison to fiscal 2010 ($4.5 billion of long-term senior notes and $2.8 billion of commercial paper notes issued). This unfavorable impact to our financing cash flows was partially offset by a cash favorable reduction in debt repayments during fiscal 2011 (repayments of $2.25 billion of senior notes in January 2011 and $881 million of commercial paper notes) in comparison to fiscal 2010 (repayments of $1.9 billion of commercial paper notes, $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes and $700 million of Sun’s legacy convertible notes) and an increase in proceeds from stock option exercises during fiscal 2011.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009: Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2010 increased compared to cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2009 due to our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes, our issuances of $2.8 billion of commercial paper notes, net of repayments, and a significant reduction in our common stock repurchases. These fiscal 2010 increases in cash flows from financing activities were partially offset by additional cash used for fiscal 2010 dividend payments and the fiscal 2010 repayment of $700 million of Sun’s legacy convertible notes.  

Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware systems products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90  

69  

Table of Contents 

 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. We financed $1.5 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion or approximately 16%, 16% and 19%, respectively, of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $117 million, or approximately 3%, of our hardware systems products revenues in fiscal 2011.  

Recent Financing Activities  

Revolving Credit Agreements: On May 27, 2011, we entered into two revolving credit agreements with BNP Paribas, as initial lender and administrative agent; and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner (the 2011 Credit Agreements) to borrow $1.15 billion pursuant to these agreements. The 2011 Credit Agreements provided us with short-term borrowings for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest for the 2011 Credit Agreements is based on either (x) a “base rate” calculated as the highest of (i) BNP Paribas’s prime rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (iii) the LIBOR for deposits in U.S. dollars plus 1%, or (y) LIBOR for deposits made in U.S. dollars plus 0.25%, depending on the type of borrowings made by us. Any amounts borrowed pursuant to the 2011 Credit Agreements are due no later than June 30, 2011, which is the termination date of the 2011 Credit Agreements. Additional details regarding the 2011 Credit Agreements are included in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

On March 14, 2011, our $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving Credit Agreement dated March 15, 2006, among Oracle; the lenders named therein, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, Bank of America N.A. as syndication agent; the documentation agents named therein, and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (the 2006 Credit Agreement), expired pursuant to its terms. No debt was outstanding pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement as of its date of expiration.  

Senior Notes: As of May 31, 2011, we had $14.8 billion of senior notes outstanding ($13.8 billion outstanding as of May 31, 2010). In January 2011, our 5.00% fixed rate senior notes for $2.25 billion matured and were repaid. In July 2010, we issued $3.25 billion of fixed rate senior notes comprised of $1.0 billion of 3.875% notes due July 2020 and $2.25 billion of 5.375% notes due July 2040. We issued these senior notes in order to repay indebtedness, including the repayment of our $2.25 billion of senior notes that matured in January 2011, for general corporate purposes, for future acquisitions and in order to replenish cash used to repay $1.0 billion of the floating rate senior notes that matured in May 2010. Additional details regarding these senior notes and all other borrowings are included in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

Commercial Paper Notes: During fiscal 2011, we repaid $881 million of commercial paper notes that were issued in fiscal 2010 pursuant to our commercial paper program, which allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. As of May 31, 2011, we had no commercial paper notes outstanding ($881 million outstanding as of May 31, 2010).  

Our ability to issue commercial paper notes in the future is highly dependent upon our ability to provide a back-stop by means of a revolving credit facility or other debt facility for amounts equal to or greater than the amounts of commercial paper notes we intend to issue. While presently we have no such facilities in place that may provide a back-stop to such commercial paper notes, we currently believe that, if needed, we could put in place one or more additional revolving credit or similar debt facilities in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms.  

Common Stock Repurchases: Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors expanded our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2011, $4.1 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 40.4 million shares for $1.2 billion, 43.3 million shares for $1.0 billion and 225.6 million shares for $4.0 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such  

70  

Table of Contents 

 as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend repayments, our debt repayment obligations (described further below), our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.  

Cash Dividends: In fiscal 2011, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.21 per share that totaled $1.1 billion. In June 2011, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 3, 2011 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 13, 2011. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.  

Contractual Obligations: The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in preparing this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Our total borrowings consist of the following as of May 31, 2011 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   We have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to our July 2014 senior notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with these senior notes so that the interest obligations effectively became variable pursuant to a LIBOR-based index. Interest payments on the July 2014 senior notes presented in the contractual obligations table above have been estimated using an interest rate of 1.38%, which represented our effective interest rate as of May 31, 2011 after consideration of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements, and are subject to change in future periods. The changes in fair value of our debt associated with the interest rate risk that we are hedging pursuant to these agreements are included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet and have been included in the above table of borrowings.  

 (2)   Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $320 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2011.  

 (3)   Primarily represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. We  

71  

Table of Contents 

     utilize several external manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. We also obtain individual components for our products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in the amount presented in the above contractual obligations table. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods that are not related to our external manufacturers and certain other suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in this amount as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way.  

As of May 31, 2011, we have $3.8 billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including related interest and penalties, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet and all such obligations have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty as to when they might be settled. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $96 million of these liabilities. Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2012. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2012.  

Subsequent to fiscal 2011, we agreed to acquire certain companies for amounts that are not material to our business. We expect to close such acquisitions within the next twelve months.  

We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.  

Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

Quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales force incentive compensation plans. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. These seasonal factors are common in the high technology industry. These factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has been our highest revenue quarter within a particular fiscal year. Similarly, the operating income of our business is affected by seasonal factors in a consistent manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software license and hardware systems products) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short-term. We expect these trends to continue in fiscal 2012. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income were also impacted in the periods presented in the table below by our acquisition of Sun during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, which added a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results.  

72  

Table of Contents 

The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards  

Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, our stockholders approved amendments to the Amended and Restated Oracle Corporation 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan, including an amendment to increase the number of shares available under the plan by 388,313,015 shares. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees. The restricted stock-based awards included in the table presented below were assumed as a result of our acquisitions.  

We recognize that options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2008 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Some of the outstanding options, which generally have a 10 year exercise period, have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2011, 1.8% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2011, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock option and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 7.0%.  

73  

Table of Contents 

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants of up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option and restricted stock-based award activity from June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2011 is summarized as follows (shares in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to certain employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk