Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Executive Summary

We are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific requirements should be the central focus in how we deliver our services and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and execute against each of our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We continually seek to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary companies with strong entrepreneurial management teams that typically currently serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base.

As a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company, we operate in all major markets around the world. We have a large and diverse client base. Our largest client accounted for 2.6% of our 2012 revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.6% of our 2012 revenue. Our top 100 clients accounted for approximately 52% of our 2012 revenue. Our business is spread across a significant number of industry sectors with no one industry comprising more than 14% of our 2012 revenue. Although our revenue is generally balanced between the United States and international markets and we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to general economic downturns.

In 2012, our revenue increased 2.5% compared to 2011. The increase reflects strong operating performance by many of our agencies, partially offset by the negative impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. Increased revenue in the United States and continued growth in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America was partially offset by the on-going economic weakness in the Euro Zone.

Global economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and financial performance. In particular, current global economic conditions pose a risk that our clients may reduce future spending on advertising and marketing services which could reduce the demand for our services. In 2012, the United States experienced modest economic growth and the major economies of Asia and Latin America continued to expand. However, the continuing fiscal issues faced by many countries in the Euro Zone has caused economic difficulty in certain of our Euro Zone markets. If economic conditions in these markets do not improve, the demand for our services could be further reduced. If domestic or global economic conditions worsen or do not improve, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We will continue to closely monitor economic conditions, client revenue levels and other factors and, in response to reductions in our client revenue, if necessary, we will take actions available to us to align our cost structure and manage working capital. There can be no assurance whether, or to what extent, our efforts to mitigate any impact of future economic conditions, reductions in our client revenue, changes in client creditworthiness and other developments will be effective.

Certain business trends have had a positive impact on our business and industry. These trends include our clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total marketing budgets, clients are increasingly requiring greater coordination of marketing activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service providers. We believe these trends have benefited our business in the past and over the medium and long term will continue to provide a competitive advantage to us.

In the near term, barring unforeseen events and excluding the impact from changes in foreign exchange, as a result of continued strong operating performance by many of our agencies and new business activities we expect our 2013 revenue to increase modestly in excess of the weighted average nominal GDP growth in our major markets. We expect to continue to identify acquisition opportunities that will build on the core capabilities of our strategic business platforms, expand our operations in the emerging markets and enhance our capabilities to leverage new technologies that are being used by marketers today.

Effective February 1, 2011, we acquired a controlling interest in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand increasing our equity ownership to 73.7% from 46.7%. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a non-cash gain of $123.4 million in the first quarter of 2011 resulting from the remeasurement of the carrying value of our equity interest to the acquisition date fair value. This acquisition has and will continue to help us to further develop our combined businesses throughout the Asia Pacific region and further enhance our global capabilities.

We had an objective of improving EBITA margins to 2007 levels for the full year 2012. In connection with this objective, during 2011 we reviewed our businesses with a focus on enhancing our strategic position, improving our operations and 

9

rebalancing our workforce. As part of this process, we disposed of certain non-core and underperforming businesses and repositioned others. As a result of these actions, we incurred charges of $131.3 million in the first quarter of 2011 for severance, real estate lease terminations and asset and goodwill write-offs related to disposals and other costs. We continue to perform reviews of our businesses and we will take actions, where appropriate, to reposition underperforming businesses. We will also continue to pursue operational consolidations to further drive efficiencies in our back office functions. 

Given our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators. The key indicators that we review focus on revenue and operating expenses. We analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including growth by major geographic region, growth by major marketing discipline, impact from foreign currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients. In recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between our domestic and international operations.

Revenue in 2012 increased 2.5% compared to 2011, of which 4.0% was organic growth and 0.7% was related to acquisitions, net of dispositions. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 2.2%. Across our geographic markets, revenue increased 4.5% in the United States, 2.3% in the United Kingdom and 9.0% in our other markets, primarily Asia and Latin America, while revenue decreased 10.4% in our Euro markets. The change in revenue in 2012 compared to 2011 in our four fundamental disciplines was: advertising increased 4.6%, CRM increased 0.2%, public relations increased 4.9% and specialty communications decreased 2.1%.

We measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories: salary and service costs and office and general expenses. Salary and service costs consist of employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs. Office and general expenses consist of rent and occupancy costs, technology costs, depreciation and amortization and other overhead expenses. Each of our agencies requires professionals with a skill set that is common across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and its selling proposition and the ability to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. The facility requirements of our agencies are also similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Because we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general costs in relation to revenue.

Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 1.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Salary and service costs for 2011 reflect $92.8 million of severance charges associated with our repositioning actions. The increase in 2012 costs resulted from growth in our business, as well as increased use of freelance labor, partially offset by lower compensation costs, including incentive compensation primarily as a result of the repositioning actions taken in 2011 and tight controls restricting the frequency of salary increases. Excluding the $92.8 million of severance charges taken in 2011, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses increased 4.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Office and general expenses for 2011 includes a reduction of $84.9 million, which reflects the $123.4 million non-cash remeasurement gain recorded in connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group and charges of $38.5 million related to our repositioning actions. Excluding the $84.9 million net decrease, office and general expenses in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Operating margins increased to 12.7% in 2012 from 12.0% in 2011 and EBITA margins increased to 13.4% in 2012 from 12.7% in 2011. The year-over-year margin improvement was driven by our revenue growth, as well as lower operating costs resulting from actions taken in 2011 to improve our operations, rebalance our workforce and drive efficiencies in our back office functions.

Our effective tax rate for 2012 decreased to 31.8%, compared to 32.7% for 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2012, income tax expense was reduced by $53 million, primarily resulting from a reduction in the deferred tax liabilities for unremitted foreign earnings of certain of our operating companies located in the Asia Pacific region, as well as lower statutory tax rates in other foreign jurisdictions. In an effort to support our continued expansion and pursue operational efficiencies in the Asia Pacific region, we completed a legal reorganization in certain countries within the region. As a result of the reorganization, our unremitted foreign earnings in the affected countries are subject to lower effective tax rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate. Therefore we recorded a reduction in our deferred tax liabilities to reflect the lower tax rate that these earnings are subject to. In future periods we expect an ongoing annual reduction in income tax expense of approximately $11 million. The reduction in income tax expense was partially offset by a charge of approximately $16 million resulting from U.S. state and local tax accruals recorded for uncertain tax positions, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit.

In the fourth quarter of 2012, we determined, based on the financial condition and prospects of our equity investee in Egypt, that there was an other-than-temporary decline in its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a $29.2 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the investment to fair value. The impairment charge is included in income (loss) from equity method investments in our income statement.

10

Net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2012 increased $45.7 million, or 4.8%, to $998.3 million from $952.6 million in 2011. The year-over-year increase in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 8.4% to $3.61 in 2012, compared to $3.33 in 2011 due to the factors described above, as well as the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of repurchases of our common stock, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan.

Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards

Critical Accounting Policies

The following summary of our critical accounting policies provides a better understanding of our financial statements and the related discussion in this MD&A. We believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our financial statements and the related notes, including Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for a more complete understanding of the critical accounting policies discussed below.

Estimates: Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We use a fair value approach in testing goodwill for impairment and when evaluating our cost-method investments to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.

Acquisitions and Goodwill: We have made and expect to continue to make selective acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the valuation of potential acquisitions is based on various factors, including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and service offerings of the target businesses, as well as our experience and judgment.

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. In circumstances where control is obtained and less than 100% of an entity is acquired, we record 100% of the goodwill acquired. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed as incurred. Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs). Contingent purchase price obligations are recorded as liabilities at the acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recorded in our results of operations. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. In 2012, we completed 13 acquisitions of new subsidiaries and made additional investments in businesses in which we had an existing minority ownership interest. Goodwill from these transactions was $235.1 million. In addition, for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009, we made contingent purchase price payments (earn-outs) of $40.4 million, which were included in goodwill. Contingent purchase price obligations for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 are accrued, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain. At December 31, 2012, the amount we could be required to pay for earn-outs for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 is $15.7 million.

Our acquisition strategy is focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the acquisition targets. Accordingly, as is typical in most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset value we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is treated as part of goodwill and is not valued separately. For each acquisition, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such identified assets. A significant portion of the identifiable intangible assets acquired is derived from customer relationships, including the related customer contracts, as well as trade names. In valuing these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach and consider comparable market participant measurements.

We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the second quarter of the year and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their regions. We have concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, and the guidance set forth in FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics. The main economic components of each agency are 

11

employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs and office and general costs, which include rent and occupancy costs, technology costs that are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software and other overhead expenses. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.

Goodwill Impairment Review - Estimates and Assumptions: We use the following valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our reporting units: (1) the income approach, which utilizes discounted expected future cash flows, (2) comparative market participant multiples for EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and (3) when available, consideration of recent and similar purchase acquisition transactions.

In applying the income approach, we use estimates to derive the expected discounted cash flows (“DCF”) for each reporting unit that serves as the basis of our valuation. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth and operating margin, EBITDA, tax rates, capital expenditures, weighted average cost of capital and related discount rates and expected long-term cash flow growth rates. All of these estimates and assumptions are affected by conditions specific to our businesses, economic conditions related to the industry we operate in, as well as conditions in the global economy. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on our valuations derived using a DCF methodology are: (1) the expected long-term growth rate of our reporting units' cash flows and (2) the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”).

The range of assumptions used for the long-term growth rate and WACC in our evaluations as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Long-term growth rate represents our estimate of the long-term growth rate for our industry and the markets of the global economy we operate in. The average historical revenue growth rate of our reporting units for the past ten years was approximately 7.5% and the Average Nominal GDP growth of the countries comprising our major markets that account for substantially all of our revenue was 4.3% over the same period. We considered this history when determining the long-term growth rates used in our annual impairment test at June 30, 2012. We believe marketing expenditures over the long term have a high correlation to GDP. We also believe, based on our historical performance, that our long-term growth rate will exceed Average Nominal GDP growth in the markets we operate in. For our annual test as of June 30, 2012, we used an estimated long-term growth rate of 4% for our reporting units.

When performing our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2012 and estimating the future cash flows of our reporting units, we considered the current macroeconomic environment, as well as industry and market specific conditions at mid-year 2012. In the first half of 2012, we experienced an increase in our revenue of 5.1%, which excludes growth from acquisitions and the impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. However, the continuing fiscal issues faced by many countries in the Euro Zone has caused economic difficulty in certain of our Euro Zone markets. We considered the effect of these conditions in our annual impairment test. As a result, we estimated growth rates for the next six years that reflect a reduction from current business results.

The risk-adjusted discount rate used in our DCF analysis represents the estimated after-tax WACC for each of our reporting units and ranged from 10.3% to 10.9%. The WACC is comprised of (1) a risk-free rate of return, (2) a business risk index ascribed to us and to companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units based on a market derived variable that measures the volatility of the share price of equity securities relative to the volatility of the overall equity market, (3) an equity risk premium that is based on the rate of return on equity of publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to our reporting units and (4) a current after-tax market rate of return on debt of companies with business characteristics similar to our reporting units, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of our equity and debt. The decrease in the WACC at June 30, 2012 compared to June 30, 2011 was primarily the result of a decrease in the long-term U.S. Treasury bond, the risk-free rate of return used as a component that we use in determining the WACC.

Our five reporting units vary in size with respect to revenue and the amount of debt allocated to them. These differences drive variations in fair value among our reporting units. In addition, these differences as well as differences in book value, including goodwill, cause variations in the amount by which fair value exceeds book value among the reporting units. The reporting unit goodwill balances and debt vary by reporting unit primarily because our three legacy agency networks were acquired at the formation of Omnicom and were accounted for as a pooling of interests that did not result in any additional debt or goodwill being recorded. The remaining two agency networks were built through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions that were accounted for as purchase transactions and as a result, they have a relatively higher amount of goodwill and debt.

12

Goodwill Impairment Review - Conclusion: Under U.S. GAAP, we have the option of either assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the carrying value of of our reporting units exceeds their respective fair value or proceeding directly to Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. Although not required, we performed Step 1 of the annual impairment test and compared the fair value of each of our reporting units to its respective carrying value, including goodwill. Based on the results of our impairment test, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired at June 30, 2012, because the fair value of each of our reporting units was substantially in excess of their respective net book value. The minimum decline in fair value that one of our reporting units would need to experience in order to fail Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test was approximately 70%. Notwithstanding our belief that the assumptions we used in our impairment testing for our WACC and long-term growth rate are reasonable, we performed a sensitivity analysis for each of our reporting units. The results of this sensitivity analysis on our impairment test as of June 30, 2012 revealed that if WACC increased by 1% and/or long-term growth rate decreased by 1%, the fair value of each of our reporting units would continue to be substantially in excess of their respective net book values and would pass Step 1 of the impairment test.

We will continue to perform our impairment test at the end of the second quarter of each year unless events or circumstances trigger the need for an interim evaluation for impairment. The estimates we use in testing our goodwill for impairment do not constitute forecasts or projections of future results of operations, but rather are estimates and assumptions based on historical results and assessments of macroeconomic factors affecting our reporting units. We believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, but they are subject to change from period to period. Actual results of operations and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our discounted cash flow valuation and it is possible that differences could be material. A change in the estimates we use could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units from the amounts derived as of our latest valuation and could cause us to fail Step 1 of our goodwill impairment test if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a non-cash impairment charge and may have 

an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Subsequent to our annual evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill at June 30, 2012, there were no events or circumstances that triggered the need for an interim evaluation for impairment. At December 31, 2012, given the current economic climate we reviewed the assumptions used in our June 30, 2012 annual impairment test for revenue growth, cash flows, WACC and long-term growth rate. Our actual 2012 results for revenue growth and cash flows approximated the forecast for revenue growth and cash flows that we used in our impairment test at June 30, 2012. Our assumptions for revenue growth and cash flows for 2013 approximate our current 2013 forecast. We also reviewed the assumptions used for WACC and long-term growth rate. Using data at December 31, 2012, the assumptions are within the 1% change used in our sensitivity analysis at June 30, 2012. Based on these factors, we did not perform an interim evaluation for impairment on the carrying value of goodwill at December 31, 2012. Additional information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 2 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition: We recognize revenue in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and applicable SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate per hour or equivalent basis. Revenue is realized when the service is performed in accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process and when collection is reasonably assured. Prior to recognizing revenue, persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist, the sales price must be fixed or determinable and delivery, performance and acceptance must be in accordance with the client arrangement. These principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client arrangements in each of our service disciplines: advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements. Because the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to clients in similar ways, all of the key elements in revenue recognition apply to client arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

In the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned. Although we may bear credit risk with respect to these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs incurred with third-party suppliers are excluded from our revenue. In certain arrangements, we act as principal and we contract directly with third-party suppliers and media providers and production companies and we are responsible for payment. In these circumstances, revenue is recorded at the gross amount billed since revenue has been earned for the sale of goods or services.

Some of our client contractual arrangements include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize performance incentives in revenue when the specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is determined by our clients. 

Additional information about our revenue recognition policy appears in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

13

Share-Based Compensation: Share-based compensation is measured at the grant date fair value based on the fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. This valuation model uses several assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences could be material. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Share-based compensation expense was $80.8 million, $74.5 million and $69.3 million, in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

New Accounting Standards

Additional information regarding new accounting guidance can be found in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements provides a summary of our significant accounting policies.

Results of Operations - 2012 Compared to 2011 (In millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EBITA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of intangible assets, and EBITA Margin, which we define as EBITA divided by Revenue, are Non-GAAP measures. We use EBITA and EBITA Margin as additional operating performance measures, which exclude the non-cash amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The table above reconciles EBITA and EBITA Margin to the U.S. GAAP financial measure of Operating Income for the periods presented. We believe that EBITA and EBITA Margin are useful measures to evaluate the performance of our businesses. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Revenue: Revenue in 2012 increased 2.5%, to $14,219.4 million from $13,872.5 million in 2011. Organic growth increased revenue by $561.9 million and acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased revenue by $95.0 million. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by $310.0 million.

14

The components of 2012 revenue change in the United States (“Domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“International”) were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the period.

•Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.

•The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($13,872.5 million for the Total column in the table).

Revenue for 2012 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2011 in our primary geographic markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2012, changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 2.2%, or $310.0 million, compared to 2011. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro, Brazilian Real and British Pound.

Assuming exchange rates at February 1, 2013 remain unchanged, we expect changes in foreign exchange rates to have a marginally positive impact on 2013 revenue.

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2012 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our largest client represented 2.6% of our revenue in each of 2012 and 2011. No other client represented more than 2.6% of our revenue in 2012 or more than 2.1% of our revenue in 2011. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 19.0% and 51.7% of 2012 revenue, respectively and 18.0% and 50.3% of 2011 revenue, respectively.

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, corporate social responsibility consulting, crisis communications, custom publishing, data analytics, database management, direct marketing, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial/corporate business-to-business advertising, interactive marketing, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail 

15

marketing, search engine marketing, social media marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four categories: advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications.

Revenue for 2012 and 2011 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2011 by discipline was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We operate in a number of industry sectors. The percentage of our revenue by industry sector for 2012 and 2011 was:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses: Operating expenses for 2012 compared to 2011 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Repositioning Actions and Remeasurement Gain: In the first quarter of 2011, we recorded $131.3 million of charges related to our repositioning actions. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2011 we recorded a $123.4 million remeasurement gain related to the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand.

16

The impact on operating expenses of these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses: Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 1.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Salary and service costs for 2011 reflects $92.8 million of charges related to our repositioning actions. The increase in 2012 costs resulted from growth in our business, as well as increased use of freelance labor, partially offset by lower compensation costs, including incentive compensation primarily as a result of the repositioning actions taken in 2011 and tight controls restricting the frequency of salary increases. Excluding the $92.8 million of severance charges taken in 2011, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses increased 4.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Office and general expenses for 2011 included a reduction of $84.9 million, which reflects the $123.4 million non-cash remeasurement gain recorded in connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group and charges of $38.5 million related to our repositioning actions. Excluding the $84.9 million net decrease, office and general expenses in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Operating margins increased to 12.7% in 2012 from 12.0% in 2011 and EBITA margins increased to 13.4% in 2012 from 12.7% in 2011. Excluding the $131.3 million attributable to our repositioning actions and the $123.4 million remeasurement gain, operating margin and EBITA margin for 2011 would have been 12.1% and 12.8%, respectively. The year-over-year margin improvement was driven by our revenue growth, as well as lower operating costs resulting from the actions taken in 2011 to improve our operations, rebalance our workforce and drive efficiencies in our back office functions.

Net Interest Expense: Net interest expense increased to $144.6 million in 2012, compared to $122.1 million in 2011. Interest expense increased $21.6 million to $179.7 million. The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to increased interest expense resulting from the issuance of $750 million of our 3.625% Senior Notes due May 1, 2022, or the 2022 Notes, in April 2012 and $500 million of the 2022 Notes in August 2012. The total outstanding principal amount of the 2022 Notes is $1.25 billion. The 2022 Notes issued in August were issued at an issue price of 105.287% reflecting a yield to maturity of 2.99%. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by lower commercial paper issuances in 2012. Interest income increased $0.9 million to $35.1 million in 2012. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related matters.

Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate for 2012 decreased to 31.8%, compared to 32.7% for 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2012, income tax expense was reduced by $53 million, primarily resulting from a reduction in the deferred tax liabilities for unremitted foreign earnings of certain of our operating companies located in the Asia Pacific region, as well as lower statutory tax rates in other foreign jurisdictions. In an effort to support our continued expansion and pursue operational efficiencies in the Asia Pacific region, we completed a legal reorganization in certain countries within the region. As a result of the reorganization, our unremitted foreign earnings in the affected countries are subject to lower effective tax rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate. Therefore we recorded a reduction in our deferred tax liabilities to reflect the lower tax rate that these earnings are subject to. In future periods we expect an ongoing annual reduction in income tax expense of approximately $11 million. The reduction in income tax expense was partially offset by a charge of approximately $16 million resulting from U.S. state and local tax accruals recorded for uncertain tax positions, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit. We expect our effective tax rate for 2013 to approximate 33.6%.

Income tax expense for 2011 reflects a number of items that were recorded in the first quarter of 2011. These items include a $39.5 million tax benefit related to charges incurred in connection with our repositioning actions, a provision of $2.8 million related to the remeasurement gain and a provision of $9.0 million for agreed upon adjustments to income tax returns that were under examination in 2011. Excluding these items, our effective tax rate for 2011 would have been 34.3%.

Income (Loss) From Equity Method Investments: In the fourth quarter of 2012, we determined, based on the financial condition and prospects of our equity investee in Egypt, that there was an other-than-temporary decline in its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a $29.2 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the investment to fair value. Excluding the impairment charge, income from equity method investments decreased $3.0 million to $14.2 million in 2012 from $17.2 million 2011.

17

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2012 increased $45.7 million, or 4.8%, to $998.3 million, compared to $952.6 million in 2011. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 8.4% to $3.61 in 2012, compared to $3.33 in 2011 due to the factors described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of repurchases of our common stock, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan.

Results of Operations - 2011 Compared to 2010 (In millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EBITA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of intangible assets, and EBITA Margin, which we define as EBITA divided by Revenue, are Non-GAAP measures. We use EBITA and EBITA Margin as additional operating performance measures, which exclude the non-cash amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The table above reconciles EBITA and EBITA Margin to the U.S. GAAP financial measure of Operating Income for the periods presented. We believe that EBITA and EBITA Margin are useful measures to evaluate the performance of our businesses. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Revenue: Revenue in 2011 increased 10.6% to $13,872.5 million from $12,542.5 million in 2010. Organic growth increased revenue by $770.6 million, acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased revenue by $236.0 million and changes in foreign exchange rates increased revenue by $323.4 million.

The components of 2011 revenue change in the United States (“Domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“International”) were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

18

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.

•The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($12,542.5 million for the Total column in the table).

Revenue in 2011 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2010 in our primary geographic markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2011, changes in foreign exchange rates increased our revenue by 2.6%, or $323.4 million, compared to 2010. The most significant impacts resulted from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro, Australian Dollar and British Pound.

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2011 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our largest client represented 2.6% and 3.0% of our revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively. No other client represented more than 2.1% of our revenue in 2011 or more than 2.4% of our revenue in 2010. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 18.0% and 50.3% of 2011 revenue, respectively, and 18.0% and 50.6% of 2010 revenue, respectively.

Revenue for 2011 and 2010 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2010 by discipline was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19

We operate in a number of industry sectors. The percentage of our revenue by industry sector for 2011 and 2010 was:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses: Operating expenses for 2011 compared to 2010 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Repositioning Actions and Remeasurement Gain: In the first quarter of 2011, we recorded $131.3 million of charges related to our repositioning actions. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2011 we recorded a $123.4 million remeasurement gain related to the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand.

The impact on operating expenses of these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses: Salary and services costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 11.2% in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase reflects growth in our business, as well as increased compensation costs, including freelance labor and incentive compensation and an increase in severance of approximately $100 million to $201 million, including our repositioning actions in the first quarter of 2011. The increase in salary and service costs was partially offset by the associated cost savings from these head count reductions. 

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses increased 4.4% in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting a decrease of $123.4 million related to the non-cash remeasurement gain recorded in connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group in the first quarter of 2011, partially offset by $38.5 million of charges related to our repositioning actions in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the net decrease of $84.9 million related to the remeasurement gain and the charges for our repositioning actions, office and general expenses were $2,035.7 million in 2011, an increase of 9.0%.

20

As a result of the above changes, operating margins increased to 12.0% in 2011 from 11.6% in 2010 and EBITA margins increased to 12.7% in 2011 from 12.2% in 2010.

Net Interest Expense: Net interest expense increased to $122.1 million in 2011, as compared to $109.8 million in 2010. Interest expense increased $23.4 million to $158.1 million. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to increased interest expense resulting from the issuance of our 4.45% Senior Notes due 2020 in August 2010, partially offset by a net reduction in interest expense resulting from the interest rate swaps on our 2016 Notes entered into in August 2010. The interest rate swaps were settled with the counterparties in August 2011 resulting in a deferred gain of $33.2 million that is being amortized over the remaining life of the 2016 Notes as a reduction of interest expense. Interest income increased $11.1 million to $36.0 million in 2011. This increase in interest income was attributable to higher foreign cash balances available for investment.

Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate for 2011 decreased to 32.7%, compared to 34.1% in 2010. The decrease in the effective tax rate was caused by the following items recorded in the first quarter of 2011 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The tax benefit on the repositioning actions was calculated based on the jurisdictions where the charges were incurred and reflects the likelihood that we will be unable to obtain a tax benefit for all charges incurred. The remeasurement gain resulting from the acquisition of the controlling interest in Clemenger created a difference between the book basis and tax basis of our investment. Because this basis difference is not expected to reverse, no deferred taxes were provided and the tax provision recorded represents the incremental U.S. tax on acquired historical unremitted earnings. The $9.0 million charge resulted from adjustments to U.S. income tax returns for calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, that were agreed upon and recorded in the first quarter of 2011. The examination of those returns is closed.

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2011 increased $124.9 million, or 15.1%, to $952.6 million compared to $827.7 million in 2010. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 23.3% to $3.33 in 2011, as compared to $2.70 in 2010 due to the factors described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010 through 2011, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Sources and Requirements, Including Contractual Obligations

Historically, the majority of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. Working capital is our principal non-discretionary funding requirement. In addition, we have contractual obligations related to our senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business operations, primarily related to lease obligations, as well as contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs) related to acquisitions made in prior years. 

Our principal discretionary cash uses include dividend payments, capital expenditures, payments for strategic acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock. In December 2012, we paid the fourth quarter dividend on our common stock that historically has been paid in January of the following year. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. In addition, depending on the level of our discretionary activity and conditions in the capital markets, we may use other available sources of funding such as issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our Credit Agreement or other long-term borrowings to finance these activities. We expect that we should be able to fund both our non-discretionary cash requirements and our discretionary spending for 2013 without incurring additional long-term debt. However, we may access the capital markets at any time if favorable conditions exist. To take advantage of historically low borrowing rates, in April 2012, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Notes at an issue price of 99.567%. In August 2012, we issued an additional $500 million of our 2022 Notes at an issue price of 105.287% reflecting a yield to maturity of 2.99%. As a result of these issuances, we were able to reduce our total commercial paper issuances in 2012 by 39% compared to 2011, as well as increase our cash balances from December 31, 2011.

21

We have a seasonal cash requirement normally peaking during the second quarter primarily due to the timing of payments for incentive compensation, income taxes and contingent purchase price obligations. This typically results in a net borrowing requirement that decreases over the course of the year.

At December 31, 2012, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $897.1 million from December 31, 2011. The components of the increase for 2012 are (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Principal Cash Sources and Principal Cash Uses amounts are Non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions used to fund working capital changes. This presentation reflects the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our statement of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding the primary sources and primary uses of our cash flow. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial statements.

Cash Management

We manage our cash and liquidity centrally through our regional treasury centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The treasury centers are managed by our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funds borrow from their regional treasury center. The treasury centers aggregate the net position which is either invested with or borrowed from third parties. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the ability to access local currency uncommitted lines of credit, the Credit Agreement or issue up to a total of $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper. This process enables us to manage our debt balances more efficiently and utilize our cash more effectively, as well as better manage our risk to foreign exchange rate changes. In countries where we either do not conduct treasury operations or it is not feasible for one of our treasury centers to fund net borrowing requirements on an intercompany basis, we arrange for local currency uncommitted lines of credit. 

Our cash and cash equivalents increased $897.1 million and our short-term investments decreased $3.2 million from December 31, 2011. Short-term investments principally consist of time deposits with financial institutions that we expect to convert into cash within our current operating cycle, generally one year.

22

At December 31, 2012, our foreign subsidiaries held $2,021.1 million of our total cash and cash equivalents of $2,678.3 million. The majority of this cash is available to us, net of any taxes payable upon repatriation to the United States. Changes in international tax rules or changes in U.S. tax rules and regulations covering international operations and foreign tax credits may affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.

We have policies governing counterparty credit risk with financial institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. In countries where we conduct treasury operations, generally the counterparties are either branches or subsidiaries of institutions that are party to our Credit Agreement. These financial institutions generally have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit ratings. We have deposit limits for each of these institutions. In countries where we do not conduct treasury operations, we ensure that all cash is held by counterparties that meet specific minimum credit standards.

Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $893.9 million from the prior year end, partially reflecting the issuance of $1.25 billion of our 2022 Notes. As a result, our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, increased $368.3 million as compared to the prior year-end, as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Debt is a Non-GAAP financial measure. This presentation, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measures, reflects one of the key metrics used by us to assess our cash management performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with US GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Debt Instruments and Related Covenants

We have committed and uncommitted lines of credit. We have a $2.5 billion committed line of credit, or Credit Agreement, with a consortium of banks expiring on October 12, 2016. We have the ability to classify borrowings under the Credit Agreement as long-term. The Credit Agreement provides support for up to $1.5 billion of commercial paper issuances, as well as back-up liquidity in the event that any of our convertible notes are put back to us.

Depending on market conditions at the time, we typically fund our day-to-day liquidity by issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our uncommitted lines of credit or borrowing under our Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2012, there were no outstanding commercial paper issuances or borrowings under the Credit Agreement.

Commercial paper activity for the three years ended December 31, 2012 was (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

23

The reduction in commercial paper borrowings in 2012 as compared to 2011 is a result of the issuance of our 2022 Notes.

At December 31, 2012, short-term borrowings of $6.4 million represent bank overdrafts and lines of credit of our international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts and lines of credit are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to the agreements supporting the facilities.

The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness as defined in the agreement. These financial covenants limit the Leverage Ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA to no more than 3 times for the most recently ended 12-month period (under the Credit Agreement, EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). We are also required to maintain a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of consolidated EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5 times for the most recently ended 12-month period. At December 31, 2012 we were in compliance with these covenants, as our Leverage Ratio was 2.1 times and our Interest Coverage Ratio was 11.6 times. The Credit Agreement does not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends.

S&P rates our long-term debt BBB+ and Moody’s rates our long-term debt Baa1. Our short-term debt credit ratings are A2 and P2 by the respective rating agencies. Our outstanding 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016, 6.25% Senior Notes due July 15, 2019, 4.45% Senior Notes due August 15, 2020 and 3.625% Senior Notes due May 1, 2022, collectively the Senior Notes, convertible notes and Credit Agreement do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be downgraded. However, the interest rates and fees on the Credit Agreement will increase if our long-term debt credit ratings are lowered.

Omnicom Capital Inc., or OCI, our wholly-owned finance subsidiary, together with us, is a co-obligor under our Senior Notes and convertible notes. Our Senior Notes and convertible notes are a joint and several liability of us and OCI and we unconditionally guarantee OCI's obligations with respect to the Senior Notes and the convertible notes. OCI provides funding for our operations by incurring debt and lending the proceeds to our operating subsidiaries. OCI's assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and intercompany loans made to our operating subsidiaries and the related interest receivable. There are no restrictions on the ability of OCI or us to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. Our Senior Notes and convertible notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness.

At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our debt and amounts available under the Credit Agreement were (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Markets and Availability of Credit

We will continue to take actions available to us to respond to changing economic conditions and actively manage our discretionary expenditures and we will continue to monitor and manage the level of credit made available to our clients. We believe that these actions, in addition to operating cash from and the availability of our Credit Agreement, are sufficient to fund our working capital needs and our discretionary spending.

In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we have historically been a participant in the commercial paper market. We expect to continue funding our day-to-day liquidity through the commercial paper market. However, prior disruptions in the credit markets led to periods of illiquidity in the commercial paper market and higher credit spreads. During these periods of 

24

disruption, we used our uncommitted lines of credit and borrowed under our Credit Agreement to mitigate these conditions and to fund our day-to-day liquidity. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on us of any future disruptions in the credit markets.

On June 15, 2013, $406.6 million of our 2038 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase and on July 31, 2013, $252.7 million of our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase. If our convertible notes are put back to us, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any repurchase. Although such borrowings would reduce the amount available under our Credit Agreement to fund our cash requirements, we believe that we have sufficient capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after any repurchase.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments

We enter into numerous contractual and commercial undertakings in the normal course of business. The following tables should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Contractual commitments at December 31, 2012 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On June 15, 2013, $406.6 million of our 2038 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase and on July 31, 2013, $252.7 million of our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase. If these rights were exercised at the earliest possible future date $659.4 million of convertible notes could be due in 2013. At December 31, 2012, we classified our convertible notes as long-term in our balance sheet because our Credit Agreement does not expire until October 2016 and it is our intention to fund any repurchase with the Credit Agreement.

Consistent with our acquisition strategy and past practice, certain of our acquisitions include an initial payment at closing and provide for future additional contingent purchase price payments (earn-outs). We use contingent purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired business during the post-acquisition transition period. Contingent purchase price obligations are recorded as liabilities at the acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recorded in our results of operations.

The unfunded benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans and liability for our postemployment arrangements was $244.4 million at December 31, 2012. In 2012, we contributed $9.1 million to our defined benefit pension plans and paid $10.3 million in benefits for our postemployment arrangements. We do not expect these payments to increase significantly in 2013.

25

The liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the periods presented based on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing authorities.

In the normal course of business, we often enter into contractual commitments with media providers and agreements with production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. Many of our agencies purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligation, then we are not liable to the media providers under the theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ creditworthiness and, in many cases, obtaining credit insurance or requiring payment in advance. Further, in cases where we are committed to a media purchase and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. In addition, our agencies incur production costs on behalf of clients. We usually act as an agent for a disclosed principal in the procurement of these services. We manage the risk of payment default by the client by having the production companies be subject to sequential liability or requiring at least partial payment in advance from our client. However, the agreements entered into, as well as the production costs incurred, are unique to each client. We have not experienced a material loss related to media purchases or production costs incurred on behalf of our clients. However, the risk of a material loss could significantly increase in a severe economic downturn.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk