Item 1.Business

Our Business: Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to marketing service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.

Our agencies operate in all major markets around the world and provide a comprehensive range of services, which we group into four fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. The services included in these disciplines are:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific consulting services.

Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to deliver our services and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, differentiates us from our competitors.

1

Our agency networks and our virtual networks provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines and geographies. This means that the delivery of our services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously. Further, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and marketing communications services. Our over-arching business strategy is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.

The various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2012 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions in the three year period ended December 31, 2012 was material to our financial position or results of operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Regions and Segments: Our revenue is almost evenly divided between our United States and international operations. For financial information concerning our domestic and international operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

Our Clients: Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, our agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients operate in virtually every industry sector of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, our agencies or networks serve different brand and/or product groups within the same clients served by our other agencies or networks. For example, in 2012, our largest client was served by more than 150 of our agencies and represented 2.6% of our 2012 revenue. No other client accounted for more than 2.6% of our 2012 revenue. Our top 100 clients, ranked by revenue, were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies in 2012 and collectively represented approximately 52% of our 2012 revenue.

Our Employees: At December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 71,100 people. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline is similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant: Our executive officers as of February 1, 2013 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years.

Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Transactions with Related Persons,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and “Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC by April 11, 2013.

Item 1A.Risk Factors