Item 1A.Risk Factors

Global economic conditions could adversely impact our business and results of operations and financial position.

Global economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and financial performance. In particular, current global economic conditions pose a risk that our clients may reduce future spending on advertising and marketing services which could reduce the demand for our services. In 2012, the United States experienced modest economic growth and the major economies of Asia and Latin America continued to expand. However, the continuing fiscal issues faced by many countries in the Euro Zone has caused economic difficulty in certain of our Euro Zone markets. If economic conditions in these markets do not improve, the demand for our services could be further reduced. If domestic or global economic conditions worsen or do not improve, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We will continue to closely monitor economic conditions, client revenue levels and other factors and, in response to reductions in our client revenue, if necessary, we will take actions available to us to align our cost structure and manage working capital. There can be no assurance whether, or to what extent, our efforts to mitigate any impact of future economic conditions, reductions in our client revenue, changes in client creditworthiness and other developments will be effective.

2

In a period of severe economic downturn, the risk of a material loss related to media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of our clients could significantly increase.

In the normal course of business, we often enter into contractual commitments with media providers and agreements with production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. Many of our agencies purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligation, then we are not liable to the media providers under the theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ creditworthiness and, in many cases, obtaining credit insurance or requiring payment in advance. Further, in cases where we are committed to a media purchase and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. In addition, our agencies incur production costs on behalf of clients. We usually act as an agent for a disclosed principal in the procurement of these services. We manage the risk of payment default by the client by having the production companies be subject to sequential liability or requiring at least partial payment in advance from our client. However, the agreements entered into, as well as the production costs incurred, are unique to each client. The risk of a material loss could significantly increase in a severe economic downturn. Such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

A reduction in client spending or a delay in client payments could have a material adverse effect on our working capital.

Global economic uncertainty could cause our clients to reduce spending on our services, delay the payment for our services or take additional actions that would negatively affect our working capital. Consequently, we could need to obtain additional financing in such circumstances. There is no assurance that such additional financing would be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Companies periodically review and change their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business models and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or retain key clients, our business and results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected.

The markets we operate in are highly competitive. Key competitive considerations for retaining existing business and winning new business include our ability to develop marketing solutions that meet client needs, the quality and effectiveness of the services we offer and our ability to efficiently serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis. While many of our client relationships are long-standing, from time to time clients put their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business up for competitive review. We have won and lost accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. To the extent that we are not able to remain competitive or retain key clients, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

The success of our acquiring and retaining clients depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of interest arising from other client relationships, retention of key personnel and maintaining a highly skilled workforce.

Our ability to retain existing clients and to attract new clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients’ perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising from other client relationships. If we are unable to maintain multiple agencies to manage multiple client relationships and avoid potential conflicts of interests, our business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected.

Our employees are our most important assets and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, including highly skilled technically proficient personnel, our ability to provide our services in the manner our customers have come to expect may be adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Approximately 52% of our 2012 revenue came from our 100 largest clients and the loss of several of these clients could have a material adverse impact our results of operations and financial position.

Our clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel projects at any time on short notice for any reason. It is possible that our clients could reduce spending in comparison to historical patterns, or they could reduce future spending. A significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our largest clients, or the loss of several of our largest clients, if not replaced by new clients or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

3

We rely extensively on information technology systems.

We rely on information technology systems and infrastructure to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, including maintaining client marketing and advertising information. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to system failures and network disruptions, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data security incidents and breaches by employees and others with or without permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Additionally, we utilize third parties, including cloud providers, to store, transfer or process data. While we have taken prudent measures to protect our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent system failures or network disruptions or breaches in our systems, or in systems of third parties we use, that could adversely affect our reputation or business.

Government regulations and consumer advocates may limit the scope and content of our services, which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Government agencies and consumer groups directly or indirectly affect or attempt to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services, through regulation or other governmental action. Any limitation on the scope or content of our services could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, there has been a tendency on the part of businesses to resort to the judicial system to challenge advertising practices. Such actions by businesses or governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Government or legislative action may limit the tax deductibility of advertising expenditures by certain industries or for certain products and services. These actions could cause our clients affected by such actions to reduce their spending on our services which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Laws and regulations, related to user privacy, use of personal information and Internet tracking technologies have been proposed or enacted in the United States and certain international markets. These laws and regulations could affect the acceptance of new communications technologies as advertising mediums. These actions could affect our business and reduce demand for certain of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

We are a global service business and face certain risks of doing business abroad, including political instability and foreign exchange controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

We face a number of risks normally associated with a global service business. The operational and financial performance of our businesses are typically tied to overall economic and regional market conditions, competition for client assignments and talented staff, new business and the risks associated with extensive international operations. The risks of doing business abroad, including political instability and foreign exchange controls, do not affect domestic-focused firms. These risks could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial position. For financial information on our operations by geographic region, see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

We are exposed to risks from operating in developing countries.

We conduct business in numerous developing countries around the world. Some of the risks associated with conducting business in developing countries include: slower payment of invoices; social, political and economic instability and foreign exchange controls. In addition, commercial laws in some developing countries can be vague, inconsistently administered and frequently changed. If we are deemed not to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where we conduct business, our prospects and business in those countries could be harmed, which could then have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position.

Conditions in the credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.

Turmoil in the credit markets or a contraction in the availability of credit may make it more difficult for businesses to meet their working capital requirements and could lead clients to seek to change their financial relationship with their vendors, including us. If that were to occur, we may require additional financing to fund our day-to-day working capital requirements. There is no assurance that such additional financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position.

4

Holders of our convertible notes have the right to require us to repurchase approximately $660 million of notes, in whole or in part, on specific dates in the future.

On June 15, 2013, $406.6 million of our Convertible Notes due July 1, 2038, or the 2038 Notes, may be put back to us for repurchase and on July 31, 2013, $252.7 million of our Convertible Notes due July 31, 2032, or the 2032 Notes, may be put back to us for repurchase. If our convertible notes are put back to us, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund the repurchases. We also believe that we will have sufficient capacity under our $2.5 billion Credit Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, to meet our cash requirements for our normal business operations after any repurchase. However, in the event that availability under our Credit Agreement or our cash flow from operations were to decrease, we may need to seek additional funding. There is no assurance that such additional financing would be available on comparable terms, if at all.

Downgrades of our debt credit ratings could adversely affect us.

Standard and Poor’s Rating Service, or S&P, rates our long-term debt BBB+ and Moody’s Investors Service, or Moody's, rates our long-term debt Baa1. Our short-term debt ratings are A2 and P2 by the respective rating agencies. Our outstanding senior notes, convertible notes and Credit Agreement do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payment upon a ratings downgrade. However, the interest rates and fees on our Credit Agreement would increase if our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded. Additionally, our access to the capital markets could be adversely affected by downgrades in our short-term or long-term debt credit ratings. Furthermore, the 2032 Notes and 2038 Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at specified ratios if, in the case of the 2032 Notes, our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by S&P, or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s or in the case of the 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes.

We may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions.

We regularly evaluate potential acquisition of businesses that we believe are complementary to our businesses and client needs. As part of the evaluation, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we might not realize the intended advantages of any given acquisition. If we fail to identify certain material risks from one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.

Our goodwill may become impaired, which could adversely effect our results of operations and financial position.

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP or GAAP, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the acquired businesses. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the second quarter or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in the financial statements included in this report, that our goodwill is not impaired, future events could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired. Any resulting impairment charge, although non-cash, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

We could be affected by future laws or regulations enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions.

Generally, our businesses are not directly affected by current cap and trade laws and other requirements to reduce emissions; but, our businesses could be in the future. However, we could be indirectly affected by increased prices for goods or services provided to us by companies that are directly affected by these laws and regulations and pass their increased costs through to their customers. Additionally, to comply with potential future changes in environmental laws and regulations, we may need to incur additional costs. At this time, we cannot estimate what impact such costs may have on our results of operations and financial position.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

5

Item 2.Properties