Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a global service business, we operate in multiple foreign currencies and issue debt in the capital markets. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of interest rate changes. We limit these risks through risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives. For foreign currency exposure, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. For interest rate exposure, derivatives have been used to manage the related cost of debt.

As a result of using derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based on specific minimum credit standards and other factors.

We evaluate the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market risks on our derivative instruments. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk on our derivative instruments by performing a value-at-risk analysis, or VaR. VaR is a statistical model that utilizes historical currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our derivative financial instruments assuming normal market conditions. The VaR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. Based on the results of the model, we estimate with 95% confidence a maximum one-day loss in fair value on our derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2012 was not material.

Because we use foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the loss in fair value incurred on those instruments is generally offset by increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to U.S. Dollars of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally denominated in their local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 19 of our consolidated financial statements. For the most part, revenue and the expenses associated with that revenue are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our results of operations.

While our major non-U.S. currency markets are the European Monetary Union, or the EMU, the United Kingdom, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, and Japan, our agencies conduct business in more than 50 different currencies. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we centralize our cash and use multicurrency pool arrangements to manage the foreign exchange risk between subsidiaries and their respective treasury centers from which they borrow or invest funds.

In certain circumstances, instead of using a multicurrency pool, operations can borrow or invest on an intercompany basis with a treasury center operating in a different currency. To manage the foreign exchange risk associated with these transactions, we use forward foreign exchange contracts. At December 31, 2012, we had forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $181.5 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of the intercompany borrowing and investment activities.

26

Also, we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with activities when revenue and expenses are not denominated in the same currency. In these instances, amounts are promptly settled or hedged with forward contracts. At December 31, 2012, we had forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $63.6 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of these activities.

By using these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk of adverse foreign exchange changes by foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably.

Interest Rate Risk

From time to time, we issue debt in the capital markets. In prior years we have used interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest cost. At December 31, 2012, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding.

On June 15, 2013, $406.6 million of our 2038 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase and on July 31, 2013, $252.7 million of our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase. As we have done on prior occasions, we may offer a supplemental interest payment or other incentives to the noteholders to induce them not to put their notes to us. If we decide to pay a supplemental interest payment, the amount offered would be based on a combination of market factors at the time of the put date, including the price of our common stock, short-term interest rates and a factor for credit risk.

If our convertible notes are put back to us, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any repurchase. Although such borrowings would reduce the amount available under our Credit Agreement to fund our cash requirements, we believe that we have sufficient capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of operations after the repurchase. Additionally, if the convertible notes are put back to us, our interest expense will change. The extent, if any, of the increase or decrease in interest expense will depend on the portion of the amount repurchased that is refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use to refinance and the term of the refinancing.

Even if we were to replace the convertible notes with another form of debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis, it would have no impact on either our Leverage Ratio or our debt to capital ratio. If we were to replace our convertible notes with interest-bearing debt at prevailing rates, this may result in an increase in interest expense that would negatively impact our Interest Coverage Ratio. However, the Leverage Ratio and Interest Coverage Ratio are currently well within the covenant thresholds. If either our Leverage Ratio was to increase 40% or our Interest Coverage Ratio was to halve, we would still be in compliance with these covenants. Therefore, based on our current ratios, our present expectations of our future operating cash flows and expected access to debt and equity capital markets, we believe any increase in the Interest Coverage Ratio and reduction in the Leverage Ratio would still place us comfortably above the covenant requirements.

Credit Risk

We provide advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to several thousand clients who operate in nearly every industry sector of the global economy and in the normal course of business, we grant credit to qualified clients. Due to the diversified nature of our client base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our largest client accounted for 2.6% of our 2012 revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.6% of our 2012 revenue. However, during periods of economic downturn, the credit profiles of our clients could change.

In the normal course of business, we often enter into contractual commitments with media providers and agreements with production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. Many of our agencies purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligation, then we are not liable to the media providers under the theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ creditworthiness and, in many cases, obtaining credit insurance or requiring payment in advance. Further, in cases where we are committed to a media purchase and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. In addition, our agencies incur production costs on behalf of clients. We usually act as an agent for a disclosed principal in the procurement of these services. We manage the risk of payment default by the client by having the production companies be subject to sequential liability or requiring at least partial payment in advance from our client. However, the agreements entered into, as well as the production costs incurred, are unique to each client. We have not experienced a material loss related to media purchases or production costs incurred on behalf of our clients. However, the risk of a material loss could significantly increase in a severe economic downturn.

27

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data