PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K.

GENERAL

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people get more out of life every day, where they live, learn, work and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Levolor®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco® and Aprica®. 

The Company is driving its strategy, the Growth Game Plan, into action and simplifying its structure through the execution of Project Renewal, making sharper portfolio choices and investing in new marketing and innovation to accelerate performance. In the Growth Game Plan operating model, the Company has reorganized around two core activity systems, Development and Delivery, supported by three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and four winning capabilities in Design, Marketing & Insight, Supply Chain and Customer Development, all in service to drive accelerated performance in the Company’s five segments. The Company’s five business segments and the key brands included in each segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2013, the Company divested its Hardware and Teach businesses, which were primarily included in the former Specialty segment. Accordingly, the results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The remaining businesses in the former Specialty segment, specifically Dymo Office and Endicia, were combined with the Writing segment given the significant channel and operating synergies.

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Newell Rubbermaid is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer superior performance and value. The Company intends to continue to leverage its portfolio of leading brands to create a margin structure that allows for brand investment. 

The Company is executing its Growth Game Plan, which is its strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company. 

 3
The Growth Game Plan encompasses the following aspects:

Business Model

•A growing brand-led business with a strong home in the United States and global ambition.

•Consumer brands that win at the point of decision through excellence in performance, design and innovation.

•Professional brands that win the loyalty of the chooser by improving the productivity and performance of the user.

•Collaboration with our partners across the total enterprise in a shared commitment to growth and creating value.

•Delivering competitive returns to shareholders through consistent, sustainable and profitable growth.

Where To Play

•Win Bigger — Deploying resources to businesses and regions with higher growth opportunities through investments in innovation and geographic expansion.

•Win Where We Are — Optimizing the performance of businesses and brands in existing markets by investing in innovation to increase market share and reducing structural spend within the existing geographic footprint.

•Incubate For Growth — Investing in businesses that have unique opportunities for growth, with a primary focus on businesses that are in the early stages of the business cycle.

5 Ways To Win

•Make Our Brands Really Matter — Sharpening brand strategies on the highest impact growth levers and partnering to win with customers and suppliers.

•Build An Execution Powerhouse — Realigning the customer development organization and developing joint business plans for new channel penetration and broader distribution.

•Unlock Trapped Capacity For Growth — Delivering savings from ongoing restructuring projects, working capital reductions and simplification of business processes.

•Develop The Team For Growth — Driving a performance culture aligned to the business strategy and building a more global perspective and talent base.

•Extend Beyond Our Borders — Accelerating investments and growth in emerging markets.

The Company’s transformation efforts in driving the Growth Game Plan into action began in late 2011 and are being implemented over a multi-year period in three phases, which are outlined below. 

•Delivery Phase — Execution during this phase includes implementing structural changes in the organization while ensuring consistent execution and delivery.

•Strategic Phase — Continued consistent execution and delivery while simultaneously shaping the future through increased brand investment and bringing capabilities to speed in order to propel the Growth Game Plan into action.

•Acceleration Phase — Expanded investments behind Win Bigger businesses to drive increased sales and margin expansion which creates additional resources for further brand investment, while also remaining focused on consistent execution and delivery.

During 2013, the Company transitioned from the Delivery Phase to the Strategic Phase, continuing the cadence of consistent execution and delivery while simultaneously implementing its change agenda. During 2014, the Company expects to remain focused on the Strategic Phase of the Growth Game Plan.

 4
The Company will continue implementing changes to drive its strategy, the Growth Game Plan, into action. These changes are the foundation of Project Renewal and are organized into the following five workstreams:

•Organizational Simplification: The Company has de-layered its top structure and further consolidated its businesses from nine global business units (“GBUs”) to five business segments.

•EMEA Simplification: The Company will focus its resources on fewer products and countries, while simplifying go-to-market, delivery and back office support structures.

•Best Cost Finance: The Company will deliver a simplified approach to decision support, transaction processing and information management by leveraging SAP and the streamlined business segments to align resources with the Growth Game Plan. 

•Best Cost Back Office: The Company will drive “One Newell Rubbermaid” efficiencies in customer and consumer services and sourcing functions. 

•Supply Chain Footprint: The Company will further optimize manufacturing and distribution facilities across its global supply chain. 

In implementing its strategy and its change agenda, the Company is focused on Every Day Great Execution, or EDGE, to capitalize on and maximize the benefits of investment and growth opportunities and to optimize the cost structure of the business.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company’s five segments and the key brands included in each of the five business segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Writing

The Company’s Writing segment is comprised primarily of Win Bigger businesses within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Writing segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes writing instruments and office technology solutions, primarily for use in business and the home. The segment’s product offerings include markers, highlighters, and everyday and fine writing instruments and accessories. Permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies are primarily sold under the Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent® and Prismacolor® trademarks. Ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies are primarily sold under the Paper Mate®, InkJoy®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America and certain areas in Latin America), Sharpie®, Mongol® and Liquid Paper® trademarks. Fine writing instruments are primarily sold under the Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring® trademarks. The Writing segment’s technology products include on-demand labeling products and online postage solutions and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®Office and Endicia®.

The Writing segment generally markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail and other retailers.

 5
Home Solutions

The Company’s Home Solutions segment is a Win Where We Are business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Home Solutions segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes a wide range of consumer products under multiple brand names. Indoor/outdoor organization products and food and home storage products are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery, and kitchen gadgets and utensils are primarily sold under the Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™ and Calphalon® Unison™ trademarks. Window treatments and drapery hardware are primarily sold under the Levolor® trademark. Hair care accessories and grooming products are marketed primarily under the Goody® trademark.

The Home Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.

Tools

The Company’s Tools segment is a Win Bigger business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Tools segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, tools and industrial labeling solutions. Hand tools and power tool accessories are primarily sold under the Irwin®, Vise-Grip® and Marathon® trademarks, while industrial bandsaw blades and cutting and drilling accessories are sold under the Lenox® trademark. Heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) tools are sold under the hilmorTM trademark, and industrial label makers are sold under the Dymo® trademark.

The Tools segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, industrial/construction outlets and other professional customers.

Commercial Products

The Company’s Commercial Products segment is comprised primarily of Win Bigger businesses within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Commercial Products segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts. Rubbermaid Commercial Products® primarily sells its cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts and wall-mounted workstations under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Brute® and Rubbermaid® Healthcare.

The Commercial Products segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Baby & Parenting

The Company’s Baby & Parenting segment is a Win Where We Are business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Baby & Parenting segment designs and distributes infant and juvenile products such as car seats, strollers, swings, highchairs and playards, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Aprica® and Teutonia®. The Baby & Parenting segment sources substantially all of its products. 

The Baby & Parenting segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants, department stores and on-line retailers.

 6
NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for continuing operations for 2013, 2012 and 2011 for the Company’s five business segments. During 2013, the Company divested its Hardware and Teach businesses, which were primarily included in the former Specialty segment. The net sales of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in the table below. The net sales of the remaining businesses in the former Specialty segment, specifically Dymo Office and Endicia, have been included in the Writing segment’s net sales (in millions, except percentages).  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 11.0%, 10.2% and 10.6% of consolidated net sales for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Customer Marketing and Service

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and to be their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its supply chain, information technology, and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers and suppliers need to more closely anticipate consumer buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2013, 2012 and 2011 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.

The Company accounts for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting, and therefore, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. In February 2013, the exchange rate for Bolivar Fuertes declined to 6.3 

 7
Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar. Previously, the Company remeasured its operations denominated in Bolivar Fuertes at the rate of exchange used by the Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (SITME) of 5.3 Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $11 million in the first quarter of 2013, based on the decline in value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivar Fuertes. The Company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of economic and political uncertainty in Venezuela; however, such devaluations would adversely affect the Company’s future financial results.

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene and polypropylene. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects continued inflation pressures in 2014. On an annualized basis, commodities consumed as raw materials generally represent approximately 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with no single type of commodity representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. In a limited number of cases, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Company’s Baby & Parenting segment has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of Baby & Parenting’s sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned approximately 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume, combined with the accounting for fixed costs such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 75% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments and customer rebates, and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Dymo®,” “Rubbermaid®,” “Levolor®,” “Goody®,” “Calphalon®,” “Irwin®,” “Lenox®,” “Graco®” and “Aprica®.”

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and 

 8
commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established.

During 2013, two of the Company’s primary customers, Office Depot and OfficeMax, merged. While the Company is unable to predict the financial impact and timing of such impact, the merger could adversely impact the Company’s net sales in the short term, particularly in the Writing segment, to the extent there are store closures and retail inventory reductions as a result of the merger. 

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management. In addition, the Company focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs. 

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 11.0% of net sales in 2013, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2013 included (in alphabetical order): Amazon, Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers and Wal-Mart.

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights. The Company is consolidating its consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence and is investing to strengthen these capabilities. The Company also continues to invest to strengthen its product design and research and development capabilities, which includes the consolidation and relocation of its design and innovation capabilities into a new center of excellence. The Company’s enhanced marketing and insight and research and development capabilities have been leveraged to implement a new ideation process throughout the business, resulting in idea fragments that feed the development of product concepts. 

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. 

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 18,300 employees worldwide, including approximately 1,500 employees at a facility in Shenzen, China, whose employment was transferred from a third-party processor to a subsidiary of the Company during 2013. Approximately 2,500 of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS