PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

Overview  

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL”) is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “United”) and Continental Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “Continental”). This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by each of United Continental Holdings, Inc., United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental Airlines, Inc. Each registrant hereto is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this report that relates to such registrant. Each registrant hereto is not filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.  

This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report of UAL, United and Continental. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to all of UAL, United and Continental. As UAL consolidated United and Continental beginning October 1, 2010 for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to United or Continental activities also apply to UAL, unless otherwise noted. When appropriate, UAL, United and Continental are named specifically for their related activities and disclosures. This report uses “Continental Successor” to refer to Continental subsequent to the Merger (defined below) and “Continental Predecessor” to refer to Continental prior to the Merger.  

UAL was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. Our world headquarters is located at 77 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601. The mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666 (telephone number (312) 997-8000).  

The Company’s website is www.unitedcontinentalholdings.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  

Merger Integration  

On May 2, 2010, UAL Corporation, Continental, and JT Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger providing for a “merger of equals” business combination. On October 1, 2010, JT Merger Sub Inc. merged with and into Continental, with Continental surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (the “Merger”). Upon closing of the Merger, UAL Corporation became the parent company of both United and Continental and UAL Corporation’s name was changed to United Continental Holdings, Inc. UAL’s consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of Continental and its subsidiaries for the period subsequent to October 1, 2010.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Integration-related 2011 accomplishments and key 2012 initiatives include:  

   •    During 2011, the Company received a single operating certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), marking a significant achievement in the integration of United and Continental. The certificate gives the FAA a single point of oversight for our combined operations. It also allows all maintenance and operating activities to be considered as “United” by the FAA;  

   •    In 2011, the Company announced that MileagePlus will be the loyalty program for the Company beginning in 2012;  

   •    The Company has co-located check-in, ticket counter and gate facilities at 66 airports since closing the Merger and now has a single area for check-in at 291 airports systemwide. More than 800 aircraft are now rebranded in the new United livery;  

   •    Some key initiatives for the Company in 2012 include converting to a single passenger service system, harmonizing other information technology systems, moving to a single website, making substantial fleet reallocations around the system and working to integrate certain employee groups. We currently expect to migrate to a single passenger service system in early March 2012, allowing the Company to operate using a single carrier code, flight schedule, inventory, website and departure control system; and  

   •    UAL expects the Merger to deliver $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion in net annual synergies on a run-rate basis in 2013, including between $800 million and $900 million of annual revenue synergies, in large part from expanded customer options resulting from the greater scope and scale of the network, fleet optimization and additional international service enabled by the broader network of the Company, and between $200 million and $300 million of net cost synergies. The Company has realized an estimated $400 million of synergies in 2011, comprised of $250 million of revenue synergies and $150 million of net cost synergies.  

The Company will incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger. The Company incurred approximately $450 million of integration-related cash costs in 2011 and expects to incur a similar amount in 2012 in categories generally consistent with 2011. There are many factors that could affect the total amount or the timing of those expenses, and many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. See Notes 1 and 21 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report and Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information on the Merger.  

Operations  

Network. The Company transports people and cargo through its mainline operations, which utilize jet aircraft with at least 110 seats, and its regional operations. See Item 2, Properties, for a description of the Company’s mainline and regional aircraft.  

With key global air rights in the U.S., Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and Continental and their regional carriers, operates more than 5,600 flights a day to more than 370 U.S. domestic and international destinations from the Company’s hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport (“Newark Liberty”), Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston Bush”), Hopkins International Airport (“Cleveland Hopkins”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”). Including its regional operations, United operates approximately 3,200 flights a day to more than 235 U.S. domestic and international destinations based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2012. Including its regional operations, Continental operates approximately 2,400 flights a day to more than 280 U.S. domestic and international destinations based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2012. 

4  

Table of Contents 

All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination” traffic. Our hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if each route were served directly. Our hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network.  

Regional. The Company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express, Continental Express and Continental Connection. In the future, the Company’s regional operations will be branded as United Express. These regional operations are an extension of the Company’s mainline network. This regional service complements our operations by carrying traffic that connects to our mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline jet aircraft. Chautauqua Airlines, Colgan Airlines (“Colgan”), CommutAir Airlines, ExpressJet Airlines, GoJet Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines (“SkyWest”) and Trans States Airlines (“Trans States”) are all regional carriers, which operate most of their capacity under capacity purchase agreements with United and/or Continental. Under these capacity purchase agreements, the Company pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment for superior operational performance) based on agreed performance metrics. The carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the regional carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. Under these capacity purchase agreements, the Company is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and other costs, which are passed through without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity exclusively for United and/or Continental, on schedules determined by the Company. The Company also determines pricing and revenue management and assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats.  

While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise more than 95% of all regional flights, the Company also has prorate agreements with Hyannis Air Service, Inc. (“Cape Air”), Colgan, Gulfstream International Airlines (“Gulfstream”), SkyWest and Trans States. Under these commercial flying agreements, the Company and its regional carriers agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both the Company and its regional carriers are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, under a prorate agreement, the regional carrier retains the control and risk of scheduling, and in most cases, market selection, local seat pricing and inventory for its flights, although the Company and its regional carriers may coordinate schedules to maximize connections.  

Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), can be found in Note 10 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.  

Alliances. United and Continental have a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, which enhance travel options for customers by providing greater time of day coverage to common destinations, additional mileage accrual and redemption opportunities, and access to markets that United and Continental do not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: loyalty program reciprocity; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules, and other resource-sharing activities.  

United is a member of Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997 and the most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. As of January 1, 2012, Star Alliance carriers served 1,290 airports in 189 countries with over 21,000 daily flights. Current Star Alliance members, in addition to United and Continental, are Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways,  

5  

Table of Contents 

 Asiana Airlines, Austrian Airlines, Blue1, bmi, Brussels Airlines, Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, Ethiopian Airlines, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Swiss International Air Lines, TAM, TAP Portugal, THAI, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. Shenzhen Airlines, Avianca, TACA (“TACA”) and Copa Airlines (“Copa”) have been announced as future Star Alliance members.  

In 2010, United, Continental and Air Canada entered into a memorandum of understanding to establish a revenue sharing trans-border joint venture. A joint venture agreement was subsequently drafted based on the trans-Atlantic joint venture agreement among United, Continental, Air Canada and Lufthansa. While the parties already have U.S. antitrust immunity, the Canadian Competition Bureau objected to the joint venture in June 2011 and the parties are currently involved in litigation before the Canadian Competition Tribunal which may affect the implementation or the scope of the joint venture.  

In 2010, pursuant to antitrust immunity approval granted by the DOT, United, Continental, Air Canada and Lufthansa entered into a joint venture agreement as full participants covering trans-Atlantic routes. Between March 2011 and July 2011, Austrian Airlines, bmi and Swiss International Air Lines began participation in the joint venture as part of the Lufthansa Group. In November 2011, the DOT confirmed Brussels Airlines is covered as a Lufthansa Group affiliate within the existing antitrust-immunized alliance. Brussels Airlines is expected to be integrated into the trans-Atlantic joint venture during 2012 as a part of the Lufthansa Group. Lufthansa recently announced an agreement to sell bmi, and upon conclusion of that sale, bmi will no longer participate in the joint venture. The European Commission, which has been conducting a standard review of the competitive effects of the joint venture, has not yet completed its review. The joint venture, which enables the carriers to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Europe and to capture revenue synergies, delivers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and service. The joint venture has a revenue-sharing structure that results in payments among full participants based on a formula that compares current period unit revenue performance on trans-Atlantic routes to a historic period, or “baseline,” which is reset annually. The payments are calculated on a quarterly basis and subject to a cap. See Industry Regulation below.  

In November 2010, United, Continental and All Nippon Airways received antitrust immunity approval from the Japanese government and the DOT, enabling the carriers to establish a trans-Pacific joint venture to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Japan, and other destinations in Asia, and to derive potentially significant benefits from coordinated scheduling, pricing, sales and inventory management. The integration of services will also allow the carriers to offer passengers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. We expect to fully implement the joint venture in 2012.  

During 2011, United and Continental maintained independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aeromar, Aer Lingus, Avianca, Cape Air, Colgan, Copa, Emirates, EVA Air, Great Lakes Airlines, Gulfstream, Hawaiian Airlines, Island Air, Jet Airways, Qatar Airways, SkyWest, TACA, Trans States and Virgin Atlantic Airways. In addition, Continental offers a train-to-plane alliance with Amtrak from Newark Liberty to select regional destinations.  

Fuel. Aircraft fuel has been the Company’s single largest operating expense for the last several years. The table below summarizes UAL’s fuel cost data during the last three years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes fuel consumption and cost for Continental Predecessor prior to October 1, 2010.  

 (b) Calculation excludes special charges identified in Note 21 of this report.  

6  

Table of Contents 

The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the Company’s operations, results of operations and financial position. To ensure adequate supplies of fuel and to obtain a measure of control over prices in the short term, the Company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations. To protect against increases in the prices of fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil. The Company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure such that the Company’s fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors.  

Loyalty Program. United’s Mileage Plus and Continental’s OnePass (“OnePass”) programs build customer loyalty by offering awards and services to program participants. Members in these programs earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, Continental, Continental Express, Continental Connection, airlines in Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Miles can also be earned by purchasing the goods and services of our network of non-airline partners, such as credit card issuers, retail merchants, hotels and car rental companies. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards.  

In 2011, the Company announced that MileagePlus will be the loyalty program for the Company beginning in 2012. OnePass is expected to end in the first quarter 2012, at which point United will automatically enroll OnePass members in MileagePlus and deposit into those MileagePlus accounts award miles equal to their OnePass award miles balance.  

The Company’s loyalty program has The Consolidated Amended and Restated Co-Branded Card Marketing Services Agreement dated June 9, 2011, (the “Co-Brand Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”). Under this agreement, loyalty program members accrue frequent flyer miles for making purchases using co-branded credit cards issued by Chase. The Co-Brand Agreement provides for joint marketing of the credit card programs and provides Chase with other benefits such as permission to market to the Company’s customer database.  

In 2011, 2.5 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on United. These awards represented 8.2% of United’s total revenue passenger miles in 2011. Also in 2011, 1.9 million OnePass travel awards were used on Continental. These awards represented 5.6% of Continental’s total revenue passenger miles in 2011.  

In addition, Mileage Plus members redeemed miles for approximately 1.3 million non-United travel awards in 2011 as compared to 975,000 in 2010. Non-United travel awards include United Club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and travel solely on another air carrier, among others. Also in 2011, OnePass members redeemed miles for approximately 489,000 non-Continental travel awards as compared to 381,000 in 2010. The increase in the number of non-United and non-Continental travel awards redeemed in 2011 was due primarily to an increase in car and hotel redemptions. Total miles redeemed for travel on United and Continental in 2011, including class-of-service upgrades, represented 83% of the total miles redeemed.  

Distribution Channels. The majority of the Company’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and global distribution systems (“GDS”). The growing use of direct sales websites, such as united.com and continental.com and alternative distribution systems provides the Company with an opportunity to de-commoditize its services, better control its content, make more targeted offerings, retain its customers, enhance its brand and lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its websites and explore alternative distribution channels.  

Industry Conditions  

Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. New and existing U.S. carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the United States. The Company’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation and  

7  

Table of Contents 

 technological substitutes such as videoconferencing. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  

Air carriers’ cost structures are not uniform. Among the numerous factors influencing a carrier’s cost structure are the carrier’s chosen business/service model and any reorganization undertaken pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Carriers with lower costs may deliver lower fares to passengers, which could have a potential negative impact on the Company’s revenues. In addition, future airline mergers or acquisitions may enable airlines to improve their revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance their competitive position within the industry.  

Decisions on domestic pricing are based on intense competitive pressure exerted on the Company by other U.S. airlines. In order to remain competitive and to maintain passenger traffic levels, we often find it necessary to match competitors’ discounted fares. Because we compete in a dynamic marketplace, attempts to generate additional revenue through increased fares oftentimes fail.  

International Competition. Internationally, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. International competition has increased and may increase in the future as a result of airline mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, restructurings, liberalization of aviation bilateral agreements and new or increased service by competitors. Competition on international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. The Company’s ability to compete successfully with non-U.S. carriers on international routes depends in part on its ability to generate traffic to and from the entire United States via its integrated domestic route network and its ability to overcome business and operational challenges across its network worldwide. Foreign carriers currently are prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the United States and the Company experiences comparable restrictions in foreign countries. In addition, in the absence of open skies and fifth freedom rights, U.S. carriers are constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements and restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate partially for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that enable these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See Alliances, above, for further information.  

Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, demand for air travel is higher in the second and third quarters, driving higher revenues, than in the first and fourth quarters, which are periods of lower travel demand.  

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation  

General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the United States are subject to regulation by the DOT. Absent an exemption, no air carrier may provide air transportation of passengers or property without first being issued a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity. The DOT also grants international route authority, approves international codeshare arrangements, and regulates methods of competition. In recent years, the DOT has proposed and implemented a variety of far-reaching and expensive consumer protection regulations dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation, tarmac delays, and baggage liability.  

Airlines are also regulated by the FAA, an agency within the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight safety, air carrier operations, and aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. The FAA issues air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribes maintenance procedures, oversees airport operations, and regulates pilot and other employee training. From time to time, the FAA issues directives that require air carriers to inspect or modify aircraft and other equipment, potentially causing the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal laws and regulations. The U.S.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has jurisdiction over virtually every aspect of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). The Company is also subject to investigation inquiries by the DOT, FAA, DOJ and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by the Company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Federally mandated domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. (“Washington Reagan”), John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”), LaGuardia Airport (“LaGuardia”) and Newark Liberty. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including Newark Liberty, JFK, and LaGuardia as “high density traffic airports” and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, which may include capacity reductions. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots may be proposed in the future that could affect the Company’s rights of ownership and transfer.  

Legislation. The airline industry is subject to legislative activity that may have an impact on operations and costs. In addition to significant federal, state and local taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending that may increase the Company’s operating costs if imposed on the Company. Congress is currently attempting to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control, airline competition, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety, and taxes, fees and other funding sources. Congress may also pass other legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. Climate change legislation is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact the Company’s costs. See Environmental Regulation, below.  

In December 2009, the DOT issued a final rule intended to enhance airline passenger protections. The final rule included regulations requiring certain air carriers, including United and Continental, to adopt detailed contingency plans applicable to tarmac delays exceeding three hours for domestic flights and four hours for international flights, subject to exceptions for safety and security. A carrier’s failure to meet certain service performance criteria under the rule could subject it to substantial civil penalties. In April 2011, the DOT issued a second set of consumer protection regulations in the form of a final rule. This second initiative mandated the amount of compensation carriers must provide passengers when they are denied boarding, imposed regulations requiring carriers to charge the same baggage fee throughout a passenger’s entire journey (even if on multiple carriers), and expanded the tarmac delay rule to foreign carriers operating to and from the United States. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been, and continues to be, a subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes and frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures.  

In December 2011, the FAA issued a final rule amending the existing flight, duty, and rest regulations applicable to U.S. air carriers operating under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. The provisions under the 2011 final rule may require us to make changes to our flight operations that could materially increase our costs.  

International Regulation  

General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with the Company’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries the Company serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all U.S.-flag carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Currently, there are more than 100 open skies agreements in effect. However, many of the airports that United and Continental serve in Europe, Asia and Latin America maintain slot controls. A large number of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow International Airport (“London Heathrow”), Frankfurt Rhein-Main Airport, Shanghai Pudong International Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, Sao Paulo Guarhulos International Airport, Tokyo Narita International Airport and Haneda International Airport are among the most restrictive foreign airports due to capacity limitations.  

The Company’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant foreign governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of the Company’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

The U.S./EU open skies agreement provides U.S. and EU carriers with expansive rights, including the right to operate between any point in the United States and the EU. The agreement has no direct impact on airport slot rights or airport facilities nor does it provide for a reallocation of existing slots or facilities, including those at London Heathrow. Because of the diverse nature of potential impacts on the Company’s business, the overall future impact of the U.S./EU agreement on the Company’s business cannot be predicted with certainty.  

In October 2010, the open skies agreement between the United States and Japan became effective, enabling U.S. or Japanese carriers to fly between any point in the United States and any point in Japan and, in the case of U.S. carriers, beyond Japan to points in other countries the carrier is authorized to serve. The agreement eliminates the restrictions on the number of frequencies carriers can operate and requires governments in both the United States and Japan to concur before taking action to regulate a carrier’s fares or rates. However, under the terms of the bilateral agreement, certain points in Japan remain slot restricted and only four slot pairs at Tokyo Haneda International Airport are available to U.S. air carriers at this time, none of which is held by United and Continental.  

Environmental Regulation  

General. The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, aircraft noise, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Areas of either proposed regulations or implementation of new regulations include regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (discussed further below), State of California regulations regarding air emissions from ground support equipment, a federal rule-making concerning the discharge of deicing fluid and a federal rule-making seeking to regulate airport fuel hydrant systems.  

Climate Change. There are certain laws and regulations relating to climate change that apply to the Company, including the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”) (which is subject to international dispute), environmental taxes for certain international flights (including the United Kingdom’s Air Passenger Duty and Germany’s departure ticket tax), limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements, and the State of California’s cap and trade regulations (which impacts United’s San Francisco maintenance center). In addition, there are land-based planning laws that could apply to airport expansion projects, requiring a review of greenhouse gas emissions, and could affect airlines in certain circumstances.  

In 2009, the EU issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its greenhouse gas ETS. In December 2009, the Air Transportation Association, joined by United, Continental and American Airlines, filed a lawsuit in  

10  

Table of Contents 

 the United Kingdom challenging regulations that transpose into UK law the EU ETS as applied to U.S. carriers (the United Kingdom being the specific “implementing country” designated to implement the EU ETS requirements as they apply to these carriers). The case was referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) and, on December 21, 2011, the CJEU issued an opinion that upheld the EU ETS. More than forty non-EU countries have gone on record opposing the scheme and based upon this significant international dispute, it is unclear whether or not the inclusion of aviation in the EU ETS will be sustained. If the scheme continues, it will increase the cost of carriers operating in the EU by requiring the purchase of carbon credits, although the precise cost to the Company is difficult to calculate with certainty due to a number of variables including the Company’s future carbon emissions with respect to flights to and from the EU and the price of carbon credits. Management continues to evaluate what the impact would be for the Company in 2012.  

While the EU ETS is being disputed, the Company has met and continues to meet its compliance obligations under the scheme including implementation in 2010 of detailed requirements for monitoring and reporting of emissions of carbon dioxide. As of January 1, 2012, the EU ETS required the Company to ensure that by each compliance date, it has obtained sufficient emission allowances equal to the amount of carbon dioxide emissions with respect to flights to and from EU member states in the preceding calendar year. Such allowances are to be surrendered on an annual basis to the relevant government with an initial compliance date of April 30, 2013 for emissions subject to the EU ETS in 2012. For 2012, the Company estimates it will receive from the United Kingdom allowances equal to approximately 80% of the Company’s carbon emissions relative to the 2010 base year, leaving a remaining amount that will need to be purchased by the Company. The amount of such allowances provided by the United Kingdom is expected to decrease in future years, potentially leaving a greater amount of allowances that may be required to be purchased. Additionally, any increase in the amount of such carbon emissions would require the purchase of additional carbon allowances by the Company.  

The International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) is in the process of developing a regulatory program for international aviation greenhouse gas emissions, with the intent to reach international agreement that the ICAO program would replace regional schemes such as the EU ETS. Without an international agreement, there could be other regulatory actions taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the U.S., or foreign governments, to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry, which could result in multiple schemes applying to the same emissions. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to the Company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

The Company is taking various actions to reduce its carbon emissions through fleet renewal, aircraft retrofits, and actions that are establishing the foundation for the commercialization of aviation biofuels.  

Other Environmental Matters. Some U.S. and foreign airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number and scheduling of hourly or daily operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in services or increased operating costs, and could limit our ability to expand our operations at the affected airports. 

The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives and which may require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of facilities can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2011, UAL, including its subsidiaries, had approximately 87,000 active employees. As of December 31, 2011, United had approximately 47,000 active employees and Continental had approximately 40,000 active employees. Approximately 72% of the combined Company’s employees were represented by various U.S. labor organizations as of December 31, 2011.  

Collective bargaining agreements between the Company and its represented employee groups are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry. Such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date and instead specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” The process for integrating the represented employee groups of United and Continental is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of United’s and Continental’s collective bargaining agreements and union policies. Under the RLA, the National Mediation Board (“NMB”) has exclusive authority to resolve union representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. Under the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, “fair and equitable” integration of seniority lists is required, including arbitration where the interested parties cannot reach a consensual agreement, consistent with the process set forth in the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions or internal union Merger policies, if applicable. Pending operational integration, the Company will apply the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements unless other terms have been negotiated.  

The following table reflects the Company’s represented employee groups, number of employees per represented group, union for each of United’s and Continental’s employee groups where applicable, amendable date for each employee group’s collective bargaining agreement and whether the group is engaged in negotiations for a joint collective bargaining agreement:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

12  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its unionized employee groups, although significant increases in the pay and benefits resulting from new collective bargaining agreements could have an adverse financial impact on the Company. 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.