ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rates. Our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s interest rate market risk at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2011 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in UAL, United and Continental interest income of approximately $63 million, $37 million and $26 million, respectively, during 2012.  

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). Our results of operations and liquidity are significantly impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel.  

64  

Table of Contents 

To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments. These hedge instruments are based directly on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities like heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil. The Company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure such that the Company’s fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors.  

Some hedge instruments may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices. However, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the Company typically hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, and uses swaps or sold puts (as a part of a collar) on only a portion of the fuel requirement that it does hedge. The Company does not enter into hedge instruments for trading purposes.  

The Company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. In 2010, UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel cost was 31%, 31%, and 29% of total operating expense, respectively.  

 (b) Based on 2012 projected fuel consumption.  

 (c) As of December 31, 2010, the net fair value of UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel hedges was $375 million, $277 million and $98 million, respectively.  

 (d) Based on fuel hedge positions at December 31, 2011, as summarized in the table below.  

As of December 31, 2011, our projected fuel requirements for 2012 were hedged as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Represents a hedge of approximately 47% of UAL’s expected first quarter consumption with decreasing hedge coverage later throughout 2012.  

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company’s more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, European euro and  

65  

Table of Contents 

 Japanese yen. At times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes.  

The result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2011 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $235 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2012 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2011.  

66  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA