PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

FLIR Systems, Inc. (“FLIR,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a world leader in sensor systems that enhance perception and awareness. We were founded in 1978 and have since become a premier designer, manufacturer, and marketer of thermal imaging systems. Our advanced sensors and integrated sensor systems enable the gathering and analysis of critical information through a wide variety of applications in commercial, industrial, and government markets worldwide. 

Our goal is to both enable our customers to benefit from the valuable information produced by advanced sensing technologies and to deliver sustained superior financial performance for our shareholders. We create value for our customers by providing advanced surveillance and tactical defense capabilities, improving personal and public safety and security, facilitating air, ground, and maritime navigation, enhancing enjoyment of the outdoors, providing infrastructure inefficiency information, conveying pre-emptive structural deficiency data, displaying process irregularities, and enabling commercial business opportunities through our continual support and development of new thermal imaging data and analytics applications. Our business model meets the needs of a multitude of customers - we sell off-the-shelf products to a wide variety of markets in an efficient, timely, and affordable manner as well as offer a variety of system configurations to suit specific customer requirements. Centered on the design of products for low cost manufacturing and high volume distribution, our commercial operating model has been developed over time and provides us with a unique ability to adapt to market changes and meet our customers’ needs.

Our business is organized into two divisions: Commercial Systems and Government Systems. Within these divisions, we had five reporting segments in 2011: Thermal Vision & Measurement and Raymarine, which comprise the Commercial Systems division; and Surveillance, Detection, and Integrated Systems, which make up our Government Systems division.

Thermal Vision & Measurement (“TVM”) products are generally sold for applications where the customer need is to see at night or in adverse conditions or to image a scene while gathering valuable temperature information. Due to continued reductions in the cost of infrared technology, demand in large untapped commercial markets such as commercial security, automotive, marine, airborne, personal night vision, and first responder markets has grown rapidly. Our TVM products range from highly sensitive cameras with extensive analytic capabilities and sophisticated image processing to less expensive cameras offering a mix of performance and value for less demanding applications. Our infrared sensors business, which sells focal plane arrays and camera cores internally as well as to third parties on an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) basis, is also part of TVM. Revenue from TVM has grown at a compound annual rate of 16 percent since 2006 and was $660.3 million, or 43 percent of consolidated revenue in 2011. 

Raymarine designs, develops, and markets electronics for the maritime market and is a leading global provider of fully integrated “stem to stern” networked electronic systems for boats of many sizes. Products include multifunction displays used to control multiple onboard electronic components, radar systems, thermal imaging cameras, autopilot systems, sonar modules, connectivity software, and various other instruments used to monitor factors such as boat speed, direction, and location. The business distributes its products through a large network of independent distributors and retailers as well as through its relationships with boat builders, providing both first fitment and aftermarket solutions. During 2011, Raymarine generated revenue of $171.5 million and represented 11 percent of consolidated 2011 revenue.

1

Surveillance is focused on selling advanced imaging and sensor systems to government customers and markets where high performance is required. Typical applications include intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (“ISR”), force protection, drug interdiction, search and rescue, special operations, and target designation. Surveillance products are sold off-the-shelf or can be customized for specific applications and frequently incorporate additional sensors, including visible light cameras, radars, low light cameras, laser rangefinders, laser illuminators, and laser designators. Surveillance products range in price from under $10,000 for certain hand-held and weapon-mounted systems to over $1 million for our most advanced stabilized targeting systems. Since 2006, Surveillance revenue has grown at a compound annual rate of 17 percent. Surveillance revenue during 2011 was $577.6 million in 2011, or 37 percent of consolidated revenue.

Detection primarily produces sensor systems that detect and identify chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives (“CBRNE”) threats. Detection has unique strengths in understanding the nature of sophisticated security threats, the technological potential of advanced detection instruments and systems, and the complex procurement processes of United States government customers. With a history of entering into government-funded design and development contracts, Detection has built relationships with key government customers and has experience in converting highly specialized technologies into commercial solutions that are marketable to a global customer base. During 2011, Detection generated $79.9 million of revenue, representing 5 percent of consolidated 2011 revenue. 

Integrated Systems develops platform solutions for combating sophisticated security threats and incorporates multiple sensor systems in order to deliver actionable intelligence for wide area surveillance, intrusion detection, and facility security. Integrated Systems incorporates advanced sensors from both the FLIR product suite and external vendors in order to design and manufacture adaptive and effective force protection, homeland security, and commercial solutions that are designed to save lives and protect critical assets. Integrated Systems revenue in 2011 was $54.8 million, representing 4 percent of consolidated 2011 revenue.

For additional information concerning the Company’s segments, including revenues from external customers, earnings from operations and total assets by segment presented in accordance with our segment structure, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Infrared Technology Overview

Infrared is a portion of the electro-magnetic spectrum that is adjacent to the visible spectrum, but is invisible to the human eye due to its longer wavelengths. Unlike visible light, infrared radiation (or heat) is emitted directly by all objects above absolute zero in temperature. Thermal imaging systems detect this infrared radiation and convert it into an electronic signal, which is then processed into a video signal and displayed on a video screen. Thermal imaging systems are different than other types of “low light” vision systems, such as visible light intensification used in green or gray sighted night vision goggles. Infrared imaging systems are not adversely affected by the presence of visible light, so they can be used day or night, and they are not susceptible to rapid changes in visible light levels. Since infrared systems are detecting emitted infrared radiation, they are passive and thus more covert than certain “active” or “illuminated” systems. Additionally, thermal imaging systems can measure very small temperature differences, a critical feature for a variety of commercial, industrial, and scientific applications.

An infrared detector, which collects or absorbs infrared radiation and converts it into an electronic signal, is the primary component of thermal imaging systems. The two types of infrared detectors we manufacture and use in our systems are often referred to as “cooled” and “uncooled.” Cooled detectors utilize a mechanical micro-cooler to reduce the operating temperature of the infrared sensor to -200° C, and offer high sensitivity and resolution for long-range applications or those applications requiring high measurement precision. These detectors, while more sensitive and thus able to see farther, result in a product that is more expensive, heavier, more complex, and uses more power than those using uncooled detectors. Uncooled detectors operate at room temperature and thus do not require a micro-cooler, resulting in products that are lighter, use less power and are less expensive to produce than cooled detectors. While the performance of uncooled detectors is improving, uncooled detectors are still less sensitive than cooled detectors. The cost of both types of detectors is declining and we expect to continue reducing costs as volumes rise and the technology advances in the future. We currently expect demand for both types of detectors, or sensors, to increase. 

Recent Acquisitions

Since 2006, we have made a total of thirteen acquisitions. The most recent significant acquisitions were Raymarine Holdings, Ltd. (“Raymarine”) in May 2010 and ICx Technologies, Inc. (“ICx”) in October 2010. The Raymarine acquisition significantly enhanced the distribution capabilities of our thermal marine products business by adding a substantial number of dealer outlets and marine OEM relationships. Additionally, Raymarine provided us the opportunity to build an integrated product line that offers thermal imaging cameras coupled with Raymarine’s multifunction displays, radars, depth sounders, global positioning systems, and autopilots products to create the broadest, most effective, and easiest to use suite of products in the marine electronics industry. The acquisition of ICx expanded our capabilities into advanced sensor technologies that detect CBRNE threats, including products that are currently sold to the defense and homeland security markets. ICx also enhanced our existing intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance product suite by adding advanced radars, imaging, and integrated platforms solutions. During 2011, Raymarine is reported as an individual business segment while the majority of ICx has been incorporated into our Detection and Integrated Systems segments, with a small portion of the business being included in Surveillance. 

2

We are selective and opportunistic in our acquisitions, seeking to purchase companies that are strategically significant and additive or complementary to our existing technologies, distribution network, or product portfolio. We are continuously evaluating opportunities for additional acquisitions, but cannot predict the timing, size, or nature of any future activity.

FLIR Systems, Inc. is an Oregon corporation and was incorporated in 1978. Our headquarters are located at 27700 SW Parkway Avenue, Wilsonville, Oregon 97070-8238, and the telephone number at this location is (503) 498-3547. Information about the Company is available on our website at www.flir.com.

Competitive Strengths 

With our decades of experience in developing and marketing infrared sensor products, we have built several unique competitive advantages that are core to our success. We look to leverage these strengths to continue to increase the ownership and application of advanced sensing technologies and to grow our revenue and profitability:

Commercial Operating Model 

A key differentiator of our business model is our pervasive commercial mindset. This is characterized by our focus on superior customer service, unparalleled new product speed-to-market, consistency in exceeding customer expectations, innovation of new technologies and unique products, ability to design for large-volume and low cost production, and control of multiple production inputs through our vertically integrated operations. Our manufacturing capabilities, which reach across the world in both developed and emerging regions, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of meeting customer needs and delivering value. 

Vertically Integrated Manufacturing 

We have built a vertically integrated manufacturing operation that provides control over certain key component technologies. Through acquisitions and internal development, we have created this internal supply network that allows for optimized manufacturing throughput, increased product design flexibility, enhanced product reliability, and independence in designing key components. Further, this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of critical components so that they work together efficiently within our products. In comparison to competitors that do not possess a similar level of integration, we can deliver products in a more timely and cost-effective manner as we rely less on third-party suppliers for critical components.

Industry-Leading Market Position 

We are a leading developer of highly advanced, proprietary sensor systems that are highly reliable, accurate, and effective. We believe that none of our competitors have comparable penetration into as many markets as we do, including the government, industrial, commercial, and consumer sectors. Having a leading position in the markets we serve allows us to secure new and continuing business while also achieving manufacturing economies of scale. Increased unit volumes work to reduce costs throughout our business, which allows us to lower our prices. This creates a virtuous cycle whereby we are able to make advanced sensor technologies more affordable to a wide array of end-users while reducing costs. This established presence across multiple markets enhances our competitive position.

Broad Product Line 

We offer a wide array of sensor products, including infrared imaging cameras and systems, detector cores, CBRNE threat detectors, test and measurement instruments, radars, maritime electronics, and related products and solutions. Our customers can buy these products off-the-shelf or request a customized sensor solution. This ability to serve a variety of customers with disparate needs and specifications allows us to be successful in facilitating the use of advanced sensors in a broad range of applications. We have the ability to rapidly conceive, design, prototype, and manufacture new products to meet the evolving landscapes of the markets we serve. Our development process incorporates significant customer satisfaction and field-use data, and results in the rapid creation of new features that are able to address the changing needs of the end-user. This continual evolution of our products has proven successful through our high level of customer retention and revenue and income growth. 

Internally-Funded Innovation

We have expertise in developing sensing instruments that are both highly advanced from a technical standpoint and commercially viable and salable across multiple pools of customers. Since 2006, we have invested approximately $600 million in research and development (“R&D”) of new technologies and products, with approximately 85 percent of this expense paid for with our internal funds. Utilizing our own funds for R&D provides us with full ownership of the development process and the end product, and also focuses our R&D teams on projects that will result in products that are commercially viable and can be marketed to multiple markets for multiple applications. 

3

Diverse Customer Base

We sell our products to thousands of commercial and government customers for use in a variety of applications and markets worldwide. The buyers and users of our products include government agencies and militaries, aerospace and defense contractors, electricians and tradesmen, commercial ports, first responders, critical infrastructure operators, electrical generation and gas processing plants, heating and air conditioning technicians, building inspectors, food processors, automobile parts manufacturers, commercial and residential security providers, research and lab technicians, manufacturing companies, doctors and veterinarians, recreational boaters, and the general consumer market. We believe that the diversity of our customers, end-user markets, and applications helps to mitigate fluctuations in demand from any particular customer or market. The diversity of our customers and of the end-users of sensor technologies provides us with multiple long-term growth opportunities.

Global Distribution Capabilities 

Our core infrared imaging products have evolved from a niche technology sold primarily to military customers and high-end research firms to become a valuable information gathering and assessment tool to a multitude of industrial, government, and commercial entities. With the widening adoption of these technologies, distribution has become a key advantage to our business globally. We believe our sales and distribution organization is among the largest in the industry and effectively covers the world with a combination of direct sales, third-party representatives and distributors, independent dealers, application engineers, and service and training centers. Internationally, we have invested heavily to build a strong presence to sell and service our products, a key advantage in penetrating particular markets, such as foreign governments. Our sales representatives, including third-party distributors, undergo a comprehensive training program on each product’s technical specifications, functions, and applications. We also continuously update our training programs to incorporate technological and competitive shifts and changes. We sell in many distinct markets and have established specific sales channels for each market. 

We continue to expand this distribution platform through internal growth and outside acquisitions. Our 2010 acquisition of Raymarine further enhanced our distribution network of thermal marine products by adding approximately 2,500 dealers, retailers, distributors and wholesalers and 250 OEM relationships to our maritime business. Additionally, our 2010 acquisition of ICx provided us with access to new markets and delivered long-standing relationships with many government customers. 

Consistent Generation and Distribution of Cash Flows

Our earnings, combined with our modest capital expenditure requirements, result in the generation of significant free cash flow. In the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our net cash provided by operating activities was $243.9 million and $255.3 million, respectively. Over the past 5 years, our operating cash flows have exceeded our net earnings every year except in 2007. This ability to consistently convert revenues into net operating cash provides us significant flexibility in making growth and capital deployment decisions, such as executing strategic acquisitions, undertaking new product or technology development initiatives, building out our distribution and marketing presence, making capital investments, or repurchasing shares of our common stock in the open market. Since 2006, we have utilized approximately $625 million of cash for acquisitions, $310 million for share repurchases, and $220 million for capital expenditures. In 2011, we initiated a quarterly common stock dividend, further augmenting our capital structure and shareholder return strategy.

Growth Strategies

Our clear and consistent strategy has enabled strong and steady performance in our business while allowing expansion into areas of growth. We look to build on our leading position in advanced sensor systems by leveraging our key competitive strengths through a focused corporate strategy that will yield growth in both revenue and profitability. Key elements of the FLIR growth strategy include:

Grow Existing and Enter New Markets 

A key element of our success is our ability to deliver high-value sensor technologies with various specifications and price points to reach a rapidly expanding range of customers. While our commercial operating model and innovative development teams work to continually increase the availability, value, and effectiveness of our products, our sizable and growing end-user population often discover new uses for our technologies. We will continue to enable our existing markets, facilitate customer application innovation, and expand into new areas of opportunity by making investments in the development of advanced multi-use products, best-in-class field-located sales and service capabilities, proactive technical and application communication forums, integrated and expert sales and marketing organizations, comprehensive customer training, and capabilities to rapidly deploy new products and solutions.

4

Design and Develop Innovative Sensor Systems

We intend to continue to broaden our product line by developing next-generation sensor technologies by leveraging our internally-funded innovation centers and, in limited situations that are strategically beneficial to our commercial model, by using customer funds. Creating a regular flow of new products that incorporate novel features and technologies while also reducing their size, weight, and power consumption is critical to our continued success in our existing and future markets. We allocate significant resources to business and product development, concentrating on tracking and analyzing industry and technology trends. By being aware of our changing customers' needs and the trends within our markets, we expect to bring to market the most cutting-edge and innovative products that provide critical information to secure, protect and improve lives and resources. 

Continually Reduce Costs

Our ability to continue penetrating and expanding on our leading market position and into the markets for advanced sensor systems is predicated on our success at reducing our internal costs to manufacture systems. Through our commercial operating model, we have had great success designing and manufacturing products that benefit from economies of scale and thus reduce our cost to deliver a product to our customers. We expect to further leverage this model and accelerate the virtuous cycle our business has created where increased unit volume output reduces our costs, allowing us to lower selling prices, which increases demand and sales volume for our products. We intend to continue to reduce costs, through continuing to vertically integrate our operations, expanding our use of shared services, rationalizing our strategic sourcing alternatives, and diversifying our manufacturing operations, which we believe will result in increased market demand for our products.

Expand Global Reach 

 Expanding and strengthening our already substantial distribution network is vital to our ability to keep pace with demand and the growing adoption of advanced infrared and threat detection systems. Investing in our direct sales force and building relationships with independent distributors and partners is a key priority. Building a presence in new international markets has been successful, most recently in regions of the Middle East, and we intend to continue the development of our global reach. Developing countries such as India and China are areas of focus, as they are emerging economies for our technologies. Additionally, as our sensor technologies become more affordable and prevalent in consumer markets, we have worked to strengthen our marketing and sales channels to better communicate with and serve the millions of potential customers that transact over the internet, through catalogs, and at retail locations. 

Build Application Awareness and Our Brand

Both thermal imaging and CBRNE detection technologies are still in the early stages of adoption in many of our markets. We believe that as people understand and recognize the extensive commercial, consumer, and industrial uses for the information our sensors provide, our business will continue to grow. As such, we strive to communicate the benefits of thermal and detection sensors to new market participants in order to drive demand for our products. We leverage our distribution channels to focus on marketing activities that incorporate internet promotion, advertising, direct mail, press and demonstration tours, technical articles for publications, and sponsorship of and participation in most major trade shows. Additionally, we strive to support the advancement of new sensor uses, provide world-class service and support, and listen to customer feedback and incorporate the findings into our solutions to further build the awareness of our solutions and our brand. These activities give us the opportunity to educate potential customers about the key features and attributes of our products and how they may be used to address specific customer needs. As an example, we have partnered with various television and internet outlets to exhibit the FLIR product line and demonstrate the unique value of our products.

Complement Core Competencies with Strategic Acquisitions 

Infrared imaging has been and remains our core business. Our unique position as a leading infrared imaging products company has enabled us to build an integrated sensors company, having recently added CBRNE detection, radar, maritime, and test and measurement products. We intend to continue investing in complementary technologies, products, and distribution channels to grow our business and become an integrated, single-source provider of advanced sensor systems and solutions. 

Focus on Financial Performance 

We are focused on translating success in selling our products into high margins and increasing profits. We have been consistently successful in doing so through cost discipline, considering the impact of key business decisions on financial performance, and benchmarking our business against some of the best performing companies in the world. Coupling consistent sales growth with a focus on controlling costs has yielded significant financial flexibility. The cash flows that our business generates has allowed us to invest in growth initiatives as well as return value to our shareholders. Since 2006, our revenue, earnings per share, and operating cash flows have grown at annual rates of 22 percent, 16 percent and 16 percent, respectively. We evaluate opportunities to deploy our cash flows in the context of long-term profitability and shareholder return impact. 

5

Business Segments 

Thermal Vision & Measurement

Our Thermal Vision & Measurement segment addresses thermal imaging applications where a customer has a need to see at night or in adverse conditions, or to image a scene while also gathering valuable temperature information. These markets have grown in size and breadth as prices have declined, volumes have increased, and new applications have emerged. While these markets are broad and growing rapidly, many of these markets exhibit low penetration rates for infrared technology. Our strategies in this business are to continue to develop products for high-end applications while introducing new products at lower price points, and to capitalize on highly price-elastic demand in numerous emerging markets. These strategies focus our efforts on building distribution channel relationships, accelerating design cycles, reducing manufacturing costs, and providing excellent customer service. While we expect markets to continue to develop in the future, significant markets for our TVM products today include: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

Sales and Distribution

We sell our TVM products worldwide through a direct sales staff and a network of distributors and representatives. Our TVM business continues to expand distribution by hiring additional direct sales personnel and expanding third-party distribution networks in specific markets, particularly in Asia, Latin America and other emerging markets. In certain markets, TVM has chosen to supply camera cores on an OEM basis to companies with well established distribution networks. For example, we are partnered with Autoliv Electronics to most efficiently distribute our core technology into the automotive market. With our further expansion into the low cost segment of the commercial markets, we have developed greater competencies in market research, electronic marketing, marketing communications, and business development. Our ability to identify new markets, adapt our product solutions to meet unique market needs, quickly develop marketing communications that highlight our unique features, and leverage existing and new distribution channels to develop incremental business are important aspects of our marketing and communications efforts.

TVM carries backlog in certain markets, but the business is less backlog dependent than our Government Systems division’s segments. TVM order backlog, defined as orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months, was $136 million as of December 31, 2011, compared with $135 million at the end of 2010. 

Customers

Typical TVM customers include OEMs, major integrators of security systems, security dealers, utility companies, electrical contractors, maritime dealers, law enforcement agencies, outdoor enthusiasts, building inspectors, damage restoration contractors, universities, numerous commercial enterprises, and increasingly, consumers. The emerging personal vision systems market is becoming increasingly accessible as we leverage our business model to reduce the price of advanced thermal imaging products. This consumer market is a key strategic area of focus given the vast size of the customer base and the opportunities it provides us to expand our volumes and brand name. Given the high-value nature of many of our thermography-related instruments, our thermography products’ revenues tend to be correlated with seasonal trends, in particular capital spending trends. In general, customers in markets like predictive maintenance and R&D are sensitive to the broad economy because our cameras are viewed as capital expense items. The sales of our high volume cameras and emerging thermal vision products are somewhat less sensitive to economic cycles due to their lower price points and the growing market awareness of thermal technology. 

Our established distribution network, broad product portfolio, and product and technical development capabilities set a foundation for future success as we continue to leverage our operating model to increase our product volumes and reduce our costs in creating advanced imaging products. As we continue to make our products accessible to a larger population of end-users and build awareness of the advantages of thermal imaging applications, we anticipate our TVM segment will provide significant revenue and profitability for our business.

Competition

Many of the markets that TVM addresses are emerging from the early-adopter environments to broader-based demand, which has attracted competitors. While our market share in thermography products is significant, estimated to be approximately 60 percent based on independent industry research, we view the TVM market as highly competitive, with both large and niche providers of thermal camera equipment. We believe the key drivers of success in these markets are: technological proficiency in imaging sensors, product design and functionality, product cost, ability to deliver in a timely manner, trustworthy customer service, distribution reach, brand name, and scalability of operations. We are uniquely positioned to operate in this competitive environment given our demonstrated ability to innovate high-quality sensors at low cost due to our operating model, our advanced research and development capabilities, our established and reliable distribution and service network, our diversified manufacturing operations, and our broad product offering. Our competitors vary market by market, but include divisions of Danaher (Fluke), General Dynamics (Axsys), L-3 Communications, Sofradir (ULIS), Axis Communications, NEC, Testo, and numerous smaller companies. 

Raymarine

Raymarine is a leading provider of marine electronics, and continues as the pioneer in the use of digital control systems. The comprehensive suite of products that Raymarine develops and markets is intended to fulfill all of the marine electronic needs of recreational boaters and offer best-in-class integrated control solutions for all of their onboard instrumentation. The current product portfolio includes multifunction displays, autopilots, thermal imaging cameras, radars, sonar modules, and other instruments which interconnect through Raymarine’s proprietary networking solutions. This broad product range is differentiated by the reliability, usability, and interconnectivity of the instruments we provide. Raymarine’s core capability, providing a comprehensive and centralized control, navigation, and communication system that can be managed with a single integrated data output, is valuable to our customers, who increasingly look for quality, technologically advanced products from a single-source.

8

Our key strategies for Raymarine, as we continue to integrate the business into our operations, include rationalizing and leveraging the significant R&D engineering expertise of the business, incorporating thermal imaging cameras into the integrated product suite while building the awareness of the significant value of thermal imaging to the recreational marine industry, and enhancing the integration capabilities of the business through investments in software and networking solutions. We have invested resources in evolving Raymarine’s product line, improving our distribution network, and rationalizing our operations and outsourced manufacturing relationships. While the boating market that Raymarine serves is sizable, the industry has been in a cyclical trough. We believe that recent operational improvements have positioned the business to benefit significantly as global demand returns to historical levels.

Markets

Recreational Boating OEMsA main focus of Raymarine has been to establish relationships with boat manufacturers in order to sell a fully integrated electronic “backbone” on new boats, with the intention of driving brand continuity with a large installed base of end-users. Medium sized (26 to 45 feet in length) and large boats (in excess of 45 feet in length) have a unique need for sophisticated electronics and multifunction control solutions. Additionally, in recent years, demand has grown for scaled-down instruments in the much larger segment for small boats (comprising inflatable and rigid motor craft under 25 feet in length). Raymarine’s comprehensive product offering has evolved to serve these evolving boat manufacturers’ needs well.

AftermarketDue to the comparatively long life of a recreational boat, the growing importance and usefulness of marine electronic equipment and the pace of technological development, the aftermarket is large for electronics systems refits and upgrades. Raymarine has ensured that both our instruments and our networking software are capable of integrating with third party platforms and instruments, which has become a key driver of demand in the aftermarket.

Sales and Distribution

Raymarine’s products are sold through a combination of direct sales, third-party distributors, service partners, and retail outlets. Raymarine has strong relationships with a large number of key boat builder OEMs, most of which are supplied directly with the latest Raymarine systems. Many of these relationships are long-term in nature and have evolved over a number of years with important exchanges of product development ideas. Raymarine’s OEM customers have typically built up important embedded technical product fitting and integration knowledge over a period of time. We have also established confidence in the critical electronic systems fitted to the products we supply to our customers. 

Raymarine also supplies a global network of approximately 2,500 dealers, retailers, distributors and wholesalers. Many of these partnerships are on an exclusive basis, whereby Raymarine is the only electronic boating equipment stocked. Raymarine also has a global network of approximately 2,000 dealers and service centers which are able to sell, repair, and install Raymarine’s products. This global support and repair service network is very important to boaters as many of our products are critical to the operation of a boat and easy access to parts and service help ensure quick repairs. Additionally, the business has established a presence at retail locations and boat shows, which serves to build the Raymarine brand in both the new-build and aftermarket spaces. Having a strong consumer brand name and a large installed base of users created through our first fitments drives business in the aftermarket as boaters look to upgrade or replace instrumentation, often with the brand with which they are familiar.

Raymarine’s backlog as of December 31, 2011, was $5 million. Raymarine is not considered a backlog intensive business, as shipment of product typically occurs within a few weeks of receipt of orders.

Customers

Raymarine sells its products via diverse distribution channels to a wide variety of customers. Raymarine has established long-term relationships with approximately 250 OEM boat builders, each of which have experience and knowledge of the product capabilities, quality, and reliability. These OEMs value the breadth of the Raymarine product line and our global dealership service network. We supply a number of OEMs directly, who outfit their new boats with integrated Raymarine electronic systems. As a result of Raymarine’s long standing relationships with OEMs and its ability to provide fully integrated electronic systems, including an electronic “backbone” to a boat, there is a high level of business from consumers purchasing replacement or upgrade equipment for their outfitted boats. We also sell discrete instruments to consumers who are looking to install new or upgrade existing marine electronics on their small, medium, or large boats.

Competition

The maritime electronics markets are competitive with many established brands and companies. We compete with these companies through innovation, product capabilities and perceived value, relationships with OEMs and distributors, and product availability and service. We believe we compete successfully with our strength in distribution, established brand name, engineering capabilities, and renewed financial flexibility. Our principal competitors in the recreational boating market include Furuno, Garmin, Navico, and a number of small companies.

9

Surveillance

Surveillance focuses on providing enhanced vision and detection capabilities to a wide variety of military, paramilitary, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers. Our systems typically provide the capability to see over long distances, day or night, through adverse weather conditions, and from a wide variety of vehicle, man portable, and fixed installation platforms. Our radar technologies are very complementary to our core thermal imaging systems in that they allow us to integrate them with our thermal imaging cameras to provide a robust slew-to-cue solution that can survey and detect movement within a large perimeter and automatically direct a thermal camera towards the movement to provide a specific field of view. Currently, the majority of our Surveillance infrared imaging systems use cooled technology to identify objects from long distances; however, uncooled thermal imaging systems are growing rapidly in certain markets such as weapon sights, hand-held monoculars/binoculars, military vehicles, and unmanned aerial vehicles. Many of our customers require systems that operate in demanding environments such as extreme climatic conditions, battlefield and military environments, or maritime conditions. Systems are often installed onto larger platforms and must be able to integrate with such other systems as aircraft avionics, radars, laser systems, and large, broad-based security networks. 

Surveillance offers a very wide array of products across multiple applications. For airborne applications, we have developed highly stabilized platforms, known as gimbals, which typically contain multiple payloads in addition to the infrared imaging system, as well as sophisticated software and analytic capabilities. For land applications, we manufacture three types of products: hand-held products, platform mounted products, and targeting products. Platform mounted surveillance systems include imaging and radar solutions which are typically housed in a weather-tight enclosure and feature remote control capabilities and multi-sensor integration capability (e.g., closed circuit TV, laser rangefinder, compass or global positioning system). Hand-held ground products are ruggedized and have optional lenses and target location capabilities. Ground-based targeting products are designed to attach to existing daylight sights to provide bore-sighted, nighttime capabilities. For maritime applications, we manufacture shipborne products which are similar to our airborne gimbals, but are inverted and customized for the marine environment. 

We address our core markets through either a commercial, off-the-shelf (“COTS”) model or a commercially developed, military qualified (“CDMQTM”) model. The products we develop under the COTS model are applicable to a range of commercial and government customers and markets, including military applications. CDMQ products are specifically designed to meet military specifications. In both the COTS and CDMQ product development models, we use internally generated funds for research and development, and we generally own all rights to the products and their design.

Markets

Search and RescueThermal imaging systems are used in airborne and shipborne search and rescue missions to rescue individuals in danger or distress on boats or vehicles, or wounded or lost in adverse conditions. Such systems are in use today by organizations such as the United States Army, United States Coast Guard, the United States Marine Corps, the United States Air National Guard and the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense.

Force ProtectionIn instances where military or other personnel are deployed in hostile areas, thermal imaging systems mounted on towers or other platforms are deployed to identify and defeat potential threats at an early stage. Our systems are deployed for this purpose by the United States Army, United States Marine Corps and others worldwide.

Border and Maritime PatrolThermal imaging systems are used in airborne, shipborne, hand-held and fixed installation applications for border and maritime surveillance, particularly at night, to enforce borders and coastal waters, to monitor national fishing boundaries and to prevent smuggling. Our cameras are currently deployed along numerous borders worldwide, including in the United States, Europe and the Middle East.

Surveillance and Reconnaissance

Thermal imaging systems are used in surveillance and reconnaissance applications for the precise positioning of objects or people from substantial distances and for enhanced situational awareness, particularly at night or in conditions of reduced or obscured visibility. We also offer high-resolution frequency-modulated continuous wave radars that enable wide-area surveillance capable of detecting potential threats before they cross a perimeter. These systems are installed on fixed platforms, manned mobile platforms, and unmanned aerial vehicles. 

Airborne Law EnforcementWe are a leader in the supply of stabilized airborne thermal imaging systems for federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. Agencies with this type of equipment have the ability to track suspects, locate lost persons, and provide situational awareness to officers on the ground.

10

TargetingWe offer several products that provide precise target location and designation capabilities in applications ranging from clip-on rifle scope devices to high-precision, stabilized, airborne laser designator systems.

Federal Drug InterdictionThermal imaging systems enable government agencies to expand their drug interdiction and support activities by allowing greater surveillance and detection capabilities. Our systems are in use by the United States Customs Service, the United States Drug Enforcement Agency and the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as by foreign government agencies.

Sales and Distribution

Our Surveillance business has a direct sales staff and a network of independent representatives and distributors covering major government markets worldwide. Included in this total are technical and customer support staff in the United States, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific who provide application development, technical training and operational assistance to direct and indirect sales personnel as well as to customers.

We enter into contracts and subcontracts which are subject to certain risks related to doing business with the United States government and may be subject to termination, reduction and/or amendment at the election of the United States government. For a discussion of these risks, see sections “We depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our business” and “As a United States government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations” in Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Surveillance typically has the highest backlog of our segments relative to revenue and in absolute terms. At December 31, 2011, Surveillance backlog totaled $247 million, compared with $333 million at December 31, 2010. The decline in Surveillance backlog is primarily due to reductions in United States government procurement in 2011.

Customers

Surveillance customers generally consist of United States and foreign government agencies, including civilian, military, paramilitary, and police forces, as well as defense contractors and aircraft manufacturers. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is derived from sales to United States and foreign government agencies and our business will continue to be substantially dependent upon such sales. Aggregate sales to United States government agencies accounted for 29 percent of our consolidated revenue in 2011, 34 percent in 2010, and 43 percent in 2009. We expect revenue outside the United States to continue to account for a significant portion of our Surveillance revenue, but demand for our equipment is increasing rapidly outside the United States. The Surveillance segment is susceptible to some seasonality in its orders primarily based on the United States government budget year end. The result is that the third quarter tends to exhibit the largest amount of orders for our Surveillance segment. However, fiscal policy trends, budget delays, and general economic trends can overshadow this seasonality in any given year.

Competition

The Surveillance segment operates in highly competitive markets that evolve rapidly with the advent of new technologies and requirements. Many of our competitors in the government sector are well established contractors for various governments and have more financial and other resources than we possess. The principal competitive factors in the government markets include technical innovation, agency relationships, product quality and reliability, price and ability to deliver. We believe we compete successfully in these markets with our best-in-class technologies, our products’ abilities to outperform customer requirements and competitors’ products, our lower priced solutions that result from our commercial operating model, and our service and support functions that exist in the field and near the customer. Our current principal competitors in the Surveillance markets include divisions of BAE Systems, DRS (a Finmeccanica company), Elbit Systems, General Dynamics, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, Sagem, Sofradir, and Thales.

Detection

With our acquisition of ICx in October 2010, we added leading capabilities in the development of advanced sensor technologies used to detect and identify CBRNE threats. We created our Detection segment to focus on the markets for CBRNE detection equipment, utilizing these ICx technologies and products to penetrate a global market for advanced threat detection capabilities. Detection leverages an established technical research and development organization which, we believe, enables the business to offer the highest quality, most sensitive, and easiest to use products that meet the evolving needs of government and commercial security providers worldwide.

Detection manufactures and markets the leading portable explosive detector, the smallest spectroscopic radiation detector, and the smallest handheld Raman sensor. The methods Detection’s CBRNE solutions utilize to test and monitor areas for threats include continuous air sampling mass spectrometry (indoor and outdoor), point detection, spray-based analysis, gamma ray 

11

detection, vapor testing, liquids screening, and Raman spectroscopy. With significant experience in managing government-funded research and development projects, Detection has developed relationships with various government decision makers and has substantial knowledge of the governmental procurement process. 

Markets

Government and private sectors are continuing to find new ways to address increasingly sophisticated types of terrorist attacks, including CBRNE threats, as well as other major security risks and natural disasters. Detection designs, develops and manufactures compact, rugged, and portable instruments that detect CBRNE threats for various end users. Product success has allowed Detection to build a leadership position in the homeland security market, and the business intends to expand on this position through continued development of innovative technologies.

Chemical and biological threat detection instruments are used by various facilities, ports, military bases, and checkpoints to quickly and accurately detect trace amounts of chemicals such as illicit drugs, volatile organic compounds, toxic industrial emissions, and warfare agents. We offer both indoor and outdoor biological air monitors that are used by various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, airport authorities, and the National Park Service, for layered security at facilities and events. Our explosives detection products are used to identify military-grade explosives and homemade explosive devices in a wide array of military and public safety applications, such as screening high-risk individuals at checkpoints, identifying improvised explosive device (IED) makers, and screening air passengers and baggage. Our radiation products protect the public by warning of radionuclide exposure and have been or are being used by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Nuclear Emergency Search Team, the New York Police Department, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the United Kingdom’s Home Office Border and Immigration Agency. 

Sales and Distribution

Detection sells its products worldwide primarily through a direct sales force, but also utilizes third-party sales representatives, value-added resellers, and systems integrators. With a centralized sales organization and specialized sales teams that serve specific markets, Detection has been successful at building and leveraging strong relationships with key decision makers at various government agencies and commercial entities. As some Detection products are designed as components or sub-systems, the business utilizes value-added resellers or systems integrators, including our Integrated Systems segment, for incorporation into their products or systems. For example, Detection provides bio-samplers for first responders, explosives detectors for airport security personnel, and multi-channel analyzers for radiation portals.

Detection derives a portion of its revenue, approximately 43 percent in 2011, from funding received from agencies of the United States government pursuant to research projects. The revenue that we recognize under these contracts represents reimbursement by the customer for time periods ranging from several months to several years. Our participation in these and other development programs has culminated in the development of a number of commercial products. In general, our contracts with the United States government permit us to retain all rights to patents emerging from the funded research and development.

At December 31, 2011, Detection had a total backlog of $25 million. Backlog represents orders that have been received for products, contract research and development, or other services for which a contractual agreement is in place and delivery or performance is expected to occur within twelve months.

Customers

Detection sells its products, systems, and services to a broad base of federal, state and local government customers, to all branches of the United States military, foreign militaries, and to private sector businesses and commercial ports both in the United States and internationally. Utilizing a regionally-deployed sales force, the business sells to agencies of the United States government, such as the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, NASA, U.S. Secret Service, U.S. Coast Guard, as well as agencies of multiple state and local governments in the United States, such as the New York Police Department. Similar to Surveillance, the Detection segment experiences some seasonality in its orders due to the United Stated government budget year end.

Competition

The markets in which Detection competes are dynamic and highly competitive. Success in these markets depends on our ability to develop new technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer needs, reduce production and development costs, integrate with third-party devices and systems, establish and foster relationships with key government and commercial customers, and recruit highly technical personnel. While Detection does not compete with any one competitor across the full range of our products, we do compete with several single-point providers, diversified enterprises, and divisions of large technology companies, such as: Agilent Technologies, Canberra Industries, Idaho Technologies, NUCSAFE, SAIC, Smiths Detection, Thermo Fisher Scientific, and United Technologies.

12

Integrated Systems

The addition of ICx also provided us with platform integration and software solutions to enable adaptive systems to protect and secure borders, perimeters, and critical infrastructure. Integrated Systems utilizes an array of sensor technologies, such as radars, thermal imaging and visible light cameras, chemical detectors, radiation detectors, and command and control systems, provided by our other segments as well as from external parties, to create high value solutions for customers across the world. Integrated Solutions has expertise in creating systems that incorporate numerous sensors and making them work together to meet the often demanding requirements of government and commercial security providers. Integrated Systems performs as a prime contractor on many projects, which strengthens our relationship with the users of our various sensor solutions, allows us to reduce total cost of ownership, and reduces system turnaround time by removing additional steps in the procurement process.

Integrated Systems manufactures and markets several highly accurate mobile and fixed solutions for perimeter surveillance. The CerberusTM mobile unmanned towers and manned SkyWatch towers are utilized for protecting borders, securing facilities, protecting forces, and safeguarding the public. These tower systems can be deployed in almost any environment and are fully networkable platform solutions that integrate various sensor suites, including infrared thermal or visible light cameras, ground surveillance radar, video motion detection, and unattended ground sensors. The towers are used all along the United States-Mexico border, at theme parks, at national monuments, by the military at home and abroad, by numerous police forces across the United States and to secure high-profile events such as Mardi Gras, the Super Bowl, the Independence Day celebrations on the National Mall and inauguration ceremonies. 

Additionally, Integrated Systems offers open-source software that enables customers to command, control, and monitor their sensor networks. CohesionTM is a flexible integration software enabling CBRNE sensors to be incorporated into standard command and control software systems and is specifically designed to support or integrate with our or third-party advanced sensors and devices. CameleonTM video integration software allows for advanced monitoring and control of video surveillance camera networks.

Markets

Combining sensor and surveillance technologies to create turn-key security solutions, Integrated Systems develops and manufactures platforms for various surveillance, assessment, and response applications. Global military agencies utilize Integrated Systems’ solutions for force protection, converting domestic and foreign military bases from traditional “boots and guns” security methods to fully networked electronic sensor-based surveillance and warning systems. Border security is a priority for many countries across the world, and our solutions, including manned and unmanned mobile surveillance towers, biometrics and access control systems, and electronic fencing and radar solutions, help keep our customers’ populaces and resources secure. Critical infrastructure, such as airports, power and gas utilities, and harbors, are another key market for Integrated Systems. 

Sales and Distribution

Integrated Systems markets its solutions to customers through a direct sales force and sales representatives. This sales organization has been successful at selling established solutions to various customers across the world and has secured funded research and development projects with the United States government. These projects are strategically sought out and bid on with the intention that the technologies and solutions that are developed will later be sold to other customers on a commercial basis. In 2011, approximately 24 percent of Integrated Systems revenue was derived from these contracted research projects. 

Customers

Integrated Systems sells solutions to United States and foreign government customers, and to private sector customers that manage energy and power production, oil and gas production, commercial ports, and critical infrastructure. Integrated Systems has provided solutions to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. National Guard, Federal Bureau of Investigation, NASA, U.S. Secret Service, U.S. National Park Service, domestic and foreign airports, as well as various state and local governments.

Competition

The diverse portfolio of solutions Integrated Systems is able to provide places the business in competition with a wide variety of companies in the homeland security, defense, and industrial sectors. We compete by creating innovative new solutions, identifying new markets for advanced surveillance solutions, reducing the total cost of ownership, and building on a successful track record with current customers. Integrated Systems competes with diversified defense integrators, commercial security system integrators, and divisions of large technology companies, such as: Boeing, Cobham, Honeywell, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrup Grumman, Raytheon, SAIC, Telephonics, and Thales.

13

Technology and Capabilities

We use our expertise in product design, infrared imaging sensors, mass spectronomy, sensing material, optics, lasers, image processing, systems integration and other technologies, to develop and produce sophisticated thermal, multi-sensor imaging, and threat detection systems. We integrate the following capabilities and disciplines into our manufacturing processes:

System Design and IntegrationWe have developed extensive competencies in the design and integration of numerous capabilities and payloads into integrated systems or sub-systems. Competencies such as stabilization, packaging and systems integration allow us to effectively combine a wide variety of technologies and payloads to design and manufacture complex systems to suit our customers’ needs.

RadiometryOur ability to produce thermal imaging systems that can accurately measure temperature is critical in many of our thermography markets. We have demonstrated know-how in designing and producing systems that can measure temperature to within very precise tolerances while maintaining accuracy and stability over time and over a wide range of ambient temperatures. We believe our skills in this area, known as radiometry, offer an important competitive advantage over many of our competitors.

Mechanical EngineeringOur design and production of thermal imaging systems involves highly sophisticated mechanical engineering techniques, particularly in the design and assembly of the supporting structures for system components such as detector arrays, coolers, scanners and optics. We also have expertise in designing stabilized assemblies used in our gimbal mounted products utilizing electro-mechanical control, gyroscopes and electronic stabilization, and specialized control mechanisms.

Infrared Detector Design ManufacturingWe design and manufacture both cooled and uncooled infrared detector arrays, in high volumes and at low costs. We believe our uncooled vanadium oxide microbolometers and cooled detectors using indium antimonide and indium gallium arsenide are among the highest performing infrared detectors of their type available in the world. Internal design and manufacturing of detectors provides significant cost and engineering advantages compared with the use of third-party detectors.

Integrated Circuits and Electronic DesignWe have significant electronic design capabilities across several specialized areas, including readout integrated circuit design, signal processing, image processing, and electronics integration. Our design expertise lies in the areas of reliability, low power consumption and extreme environmental survivability.

Sensing MaterialsOur sensors use new materials with novel characteristics, such as innovative semiconductors, crystals, polymers, reagents, and other recently developed materials. Some materials are extraordinarily sensitive, responding to trace exposures of chemical compounds such as explosives, nerve agents, or biological proteins. Other materials respond to low-intensity radioactive emissions of electromagnetic energy, such as specific bands of infrared light. Many of these materials did not exist a few years ago or could not be sufficiently purified or economically assembled into functional structures.

Software DevelopmentSoftware is an increasingly important aspect of our overall engineering and design activity. We offer networking capability, video analytics and other software and middleware inside many of our camera systems, and such applications are growing in importance. Our systems are also able to interface with many standard external software protocols.

Optical Design, Fabrication and CoatingWe design and manufacture sophisticated infrared optics using materials such as silicon and germanium that are required to produce a thermal imaging system. This capability allows us to rapidly develop optics optimized for use with our cameras and avoid costs and delays associated with reliance on third-party optics suppliers. We also have the ability to apply custom vapor deposited coatings to improve the transmission of the unique lens materials that are used in infrared systems.

Micro-CoolersWe manufacture the industry’s smallest, lightest and lowest power micro-coolers for use in cooling infrared detectors. Our coolers are especially effective in hand-held applications, where light weight and long battery life are essential.

Lasers and Laser ComponentsMany of our more sophisticated systems are increasingly being offered with various types of laser payloads, including pointers, illuminators, rangefinders and designators. We design and manufacture purpose-built laser rangefinders and designators for inclusion in some of our gimbaled systems. We also manufacture certain laser-related components for customers. Our 2011 acquisition of Aerius Photonics, LLC enhanced our ability to provide advanced laser components.

14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research & Development

Our success has been and will be in the future substantially affected by our ability to innovate new products and technologies that both augment our existing solutions and create new avenues for growth. We strive to differentiate ourselves from our competition with our R&D operations. Our internally funded research and development expenses were $147.2 million, $116.6 million, and $91.3 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We intend to continue to have significant internal research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high quality products to maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. In addition to these internally-funded amounts, in 2011, 2010, and 2009, we spent $47.9 million, $12.3 million, and $5.4 million, respectively, on research and development projects that were reimbursed by government agencies or prime contractors pursuant to development contracts we undertook. 

Focusing on projects that have the highest probability for commercial marketability, our R&D teams are located within our business segments. These teams work to develop products that will fulfill our specific customers’ constantly evolving needs while also sharing findings, successes, technologies, tools, and best practices with one another. One method that our Government Systems division R&D teams use to ensure our new products evolve with our customers is a development process that utilizes rapid field testing and refinement of new technologies in order to get end-users the critical protection and information tools they need as quickly as possible. A key tenet of our development philosophy is seeking and receiving end-user feedback on new or upgraded products. Engineers in the field work with the end-users in real-time in order to revise and tune products quickly and efficiently. The solicitation and effectiveness of the end-user feedback has proven integral to our success in creating the most technologically advanced yet user-friendly solutions.

Proprietary Rights

Given our focus on being the innovation leader in our key markets, we have numerous pending and issued patents and trademarks, commercial and technical trade secrets and other intellectual property that are important for our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, a strong internet domain presence, confidentiality agreements, joint development agreements, and robust contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Given our diligent efforts to respect the intellectual property rights of others combined with the important competitive advantages that our intellectual property provides, we have intensified our efforts to police and protect our intellectual property from improper use and misappropriation. We will continue to actively protect our intellectual property and intend to emphasize initiatives that will further promote innovation and leadership in marketable technology. We cannot, however, be certain or give any assurance that we can secure patent or trademark protection on all our innovations, maintain our competitive advantage or that competitors will not develop similar or superior capabilities.

Manufacturing

We manufacture many of the critical components for our products, including but not limited to infrared detectors, gimbals, pan-tilts, optics and coatings, laser sub-systems and micro-coolers, and develop much of the necessary software and middleware for our systems. This vertical integration minimizes lead times, facilitates prompt delivery of our products, controls costs and ensures that these components satisfy our quality standards. We purchase other parts pre-assembled, including certain detectors, certain coolers and optics, circuit boards, cables and wire harnesses. These purchased and manufactured components are then assembled into finished systems and tested at one of our primary production facilities located in the U.S., Sweden, Estonia, France, Germany and Canada. Certain components and finished goods, especially many of our Raymarine products, are produced by contract manufacturers.

Our manufacturing operations are, from time to time, audited by certain OEM customers, which include several major aircraft manufacturers, and have been certified as meeting their quality standards. Substantially all of our manufacturing locations are either ISO 9001:2000 or :2008 certified with certain locations having higher certifications.

15

Customer Service

We maintain service facilities at many locations worldwide. Each of our service facilities has the capability to perform the complex calibrations required to service thermal imaging systems. We also maintain field service capabilities under the direction of our independent representatives or distributors in locations outside the United States.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2011, we had 3,084 employees of which 1,893 were located in the United States and 1,191 were located outside of the United States. We have generally been successful in attracting highly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a union or other bargaining group. Certain employees in Europe are represented by unions and workers councils whose contracts are subject to periodic renegotiations. We believe our relationships with our employees, unions and workers councils are good.

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. We continually assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these requirements. We have also assessed the risk for environmental contamination for our various manufacturing facilities, including our acquired businesses and facilities and, where appropriate, have obtained indemnification from the sellers of those businesses and facilities.

We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance will all existing applicable environmental laws and permits. Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material.

Available Information

Our internet website address is www.flir.com. This Report, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other required filings are available through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Report.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS