Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Risks Related to Our Business  

Product Marketplace and Operational Risks:  

The insurance industry is a mature, regulated industry, populated by many firms. We operate in the life and health insurance sectors of the insurance industry, each with its own set of risks.  

The development and maintenance of our various distribution systems are critical to growth in product sales and profits. Because our life and health insurance sales are primarily made to individuals, rather than groups, and the face amounts sold are lower than that of policies sold in the higher income market, the development, maintenance, and retention of adequate numbers of producing agents and direct response systems to support growth of sales in this market are critical. We compete for producing agents with other insurers primarily on the basis of our products and compensation. Adequate compensation that is competitive with other employment opportunities and that also motivates producing agents to increase sales is critical, as our competitors seek to hire away our agents from time to time. In direct response, continuous development of new offerings and cost efficiency are key. Less than optimum execution of these strategies may result in reduced sales and profits.  

Economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We serve primarily the middle-income market for individual protection life and health insurance and, as a result, we compete directly with alternative uses of a customer’s disposable income. If disposable income within this demographic group declines or the use of disposable income becomes more limited, as a result of an economic downturn or otherwise, then new sales of our insurance products could become more challenging, and our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether.  

Variations in expected to actual rates of mortality, morbidity, and persistency could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We establish a liability for our policy reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. These reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain. The reserve computations involve the exercise of significant judgment with respect to levels of mortality, morbidity, and persistency as well as the timing of premium and benefit payments. Even though our actuaries continually test expected-to-actual results, actual levels that occur may differ significantly from the levels assumed when premium rates were first set. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts of claims or benefits that we will pay or the timing of such payments. Significant variations from the levels assumed when policy reserves are first set could negatively affect our profit margins and income.  

A ratings downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer’s ability to meet policyholder and contract holder obligations. These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our insurance products, our ability to market these products and our competitive position. A downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency with respect to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could negatively affect us in many ways, including the following: limiting or restricting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and adversely affecting our ability to sell insurance products through our independent agencies.  

Rating agencies also publish credit ratings for us. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. These ratings are important to our overall ability to access certain types of liquidity. Actual or anticipated downgrades in our credit ratings, or an announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, including limiting our access to capital markets, increasing the cost of debt,  

6  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 impairing our ability to raise capital to refinance maturing debt obligations, limiting our capacity to support growth at our insurance subsidiaries, and making it more difficult to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.  

Ratings reflect only the rating agency’s views and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies use various models and formulas to assess the strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models could impact the rating agencies’ judgment of the rating to be assigned to the rated company. There can be no assurance that current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. We cannot predict what actions the rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of the rating agencies, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Life Insurance Marketplace Risk:  

Our life products are sold in selected niche markets. We are at risk should any of these markets diminish. We have two life distribution channels that focus on distinct market niches: labor union members and sales via direct response distribution. The contraction of the size of either market could adversely affect sales. In recent years, labor union membership has experienced minimal growth and has declined as a percentage of employed workers. Most of our direct response business is solicited either through direct mail, insertion into other mail media for distribution, internet marketing, or by inbound telephone calls. Significant adverse changes in postage cost or the acceptance of unsolicited marketing mail by consumers could negatively affect this business.  

Health Insurance Marketplace Risks:  

Congress could make changes to the Medicare program which could impact our Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance business. Medicare Supplement insurance constitutes a significant portion of our in-force health insurance business. Because of increasing medical cost inflation and concerns about the solvency of the Medicare program, it is possible that changes will be made to the Medicare program by Congress in the future. The nature and timing of these changes cannot be predicted and could have a material adverse effect on that business.  

Our Medicare Supplement business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers. Our Medicare Supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged health care industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as Medicare Advantage, or other health maintenance organizations (HMOs) or managed care plans. The success of these alternative businesses could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare Supplement insurance.  

Our Medicare Supplement and other health insurance business is subject to intense competition primarily on the basis of price which could restrict future sales. In recent years, price competition in the traditional Medicare Supplement market, as well as the market for other health products, has been significant, characterized by some insurers who have been willing to earn very small profit margins or to underprice new sales in order to gain market share. We have elected not to compete on those terms, which has negatively affected sales. Should these industry practices continue, it is likely that our sales of health insurance products will remain depressed.  

An inability to obtain timely and appropriate premium rate increases for the health insurance policies we sell due to regulatory delay could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant percentage of the health insurance premiums that our insurance subsidiaries earn is from Medicare Supplement insurance. Medicare Supplement insurance and the terms under which the premiums for such policies may be increased are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. As a result, it is characterized by lower profit margins than life insurance and requires strict administrative discipline and economies of scale for success. Because Medicare Supplement policies are  

7  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 coordinated with the federal Medicare program, which experiences health care inflation every year, annual premium rate increases for the Medicare Supplement policies are necessary. Obtaining timely rate increases is of critical importance to our success in this market. Accordingly, the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to obtain approval of premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities in the future could adversely impact their profitability.  

Investment Risks:  

Our investments are subject to market and credit risks. Our invested assets are subject to the customary risks of defaults, downgrades, and changes in market values. Substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of fixed-maturity and short-term investments. A significant portion of our fixed-maturity investments is comprised of corporate bonds, exposing us to the risk that individual corporate issuers will not have the ability to make required interest or principal payments on the investment. Factors that may affect both market and credit risks include interest rate levels, financial market performance, disruptions in credit markets, and general economic conditions, as well as particular circumstances affecting the businesses or industries of each issuer. Additionally, because the majority of our investments are longer-term fixed maturities that we typically hold until maturity, significant increases in interest rates, widening of credit spreads, or inactive markets associated with market downturns could cause a material temporary decline in the fair value of our fixed investment portfolio, even with regard to performing assets. These declines could cause a material increase in unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. Significant unrealized losses can substantially reduce our capital position and shareholders’ equity. It is possible that our investment in certain of these securities with unrealized losses may experience a default event and that a portion or all of that unrealized loss may not be recoverable. In that case, the unrealized loss will be realized, at which point we would take an impairment charge, reducing our net income.  

Difficulties in the business of particular issuers or in industries in which we hold investments could cause significant downgrades, delinquencies and defaults in our investment portfolio, potentially resulting in lower net investment income and increased realized and unrealized investment losses. Difficult conditions in U.S. capital markets in recent periods caused a notable increase in the troubled status of businesses in which we hold investments. If difficulties within these businesses and industries increase, there could be deferrals and defaults on amounts owed to us. If conditions in the capital markets worsen, we could experience credit downgrades or default events within our investment portfolio.  

A default by an issuer could result in a significant other-than-temporary impairment of that investment, causing us to write the investment down and take a charge against net income. The risk of default is higher for bonds with longer-term maturities, which we acquire in order to match our long-term insurance obligations. We attempt to reduce this risk by purchasing only investment grade securities and by carefully evaluating an issuer before entering into an investment. Also, while we have invested in a broad array of industries and issuers in order to attempt to maintain a highly diversified portfolio, a significant amount of our investments is in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions, which have experienced an increased level of downgrades in recent years. Moreover, we cannot be assured that any particular issuer, regardless of industry, will be able to make required interest and principal payments, on a timely basis or at all. Material other-than-temporary impairments could reduce our statutory surplus, leading to lower risk-based capital ratios, potential downgrades of our ratings by rating agencies and a potential reduction of future dividend capacity from our insurance subsidiaries. While we intend to hold our investments until maturity, a severe increase in defaults could cause us to suffer a significant decrease in investment income or principal repayments, resulting in substantial realized losses from the writedowns of impaired investments. Current net income would be negatively impacted by the writedowns, and prospective net income would be adversely impacted by the loss of future interest income.  

A decline in interest rates could negatively affect income. Declines in interest rates expose insurance companies to the risk of not earning anticipated spreads between the interest rate earned on investments and the discount rates used to calculate the net policy liabilities. While we attempt to manage our investments to preserve the excess investment income spread, we provide no assurance that a significant and persistent decline in interest rates will not materially affect such spreads. Significant  

8  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 decreases in interest rates could result in calls by issuers of investments, where such features are available to issuers. These calls could result in a decline in our investment income, as reinvestment of the proceeds would likely be at lower rates.  

Liquidity Risks:  

Our liquidity to fund operations is substantially dependent on funds available, primarily dividends, from our insurance subsidiaries. As a holding company with no direct operations, our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries, which periodically declare and distribute dividends on their capital stock. Moreover, our liquidity, including our ability to pay our operating expenses and to make principal and interest payments on debt securities or other indebtedness owed by us, as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or any preferred stock, depends significantly upon the surplus and earnings of our insurance subsidiaries and the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Other sources of liquidity for us also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including our credit facility, commercial paper and medium- and long-term debt.  

The principal sources of our insurance subsidiaries’ liquidity are insurance premiums, as well as investment income, maturities, repayments, and other cash flow from our investment portfolio. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance companies that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans, and advances that those subsidiaries may pay to us, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. For example, in the states where our companies are domiciled, an insurance company generally may pay dividends only out of its unassigned surplus as reflected in its statutory financial statements filed in that state. Additionally, dividends paid by insurance subsidiaries are generally limited to the greater of prior year statutory net income, excluding capital gains, on an annual noncumulative basis or 10% of prior year statutory surplus without regulatory approval. Accordingly, a disruption in our insurance subsidiaries’ operations could reduce their capital or cash flow and, as a result, limit or disallow payment of dividends to us, a principal source of our cash flow.  

We can give no assurance that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which could, under certain circumstances, significantly reduce dividends or other amounts paid to us by our subsidiaries. Although we do not anticipate changes, changes in these laws could constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. Additionally, the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to obtain approval of premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities could adversely impact their profitability, and thus their ability to declare and distribute dividends to us. Limitations on the flow of dividends from our subsidiaries could limit our ability to service and repay debt or to pay dividends on our capital stock.  

Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or access capital, as well as affect our cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have recently experienced extreme instability and disruption for an extended period of time. In some cases, the markets exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain industries and issuers. Additionally, should credit spreads widen again in the future, the interest rate we must pay on any new debt obligation we may issue could increase, and our net income could be reduced. If the credit and capital markets were to experience significant disruption, uncertainty, and instability, these conditions could adversely affect our access to capital. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace maturing liabilities (in a timely manner or at all) and/or access the capital necessary to grow our business.  

In the unlikely event that current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing or raise capital. The availability of additional financing or capital will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit or capital, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the insurance industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. Additionally, customers, lenders, or investors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity  

9  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 decreases due to a market downturn. Our access to funds may also be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Therefore, as a result, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially negatively affected by disruptions in the financial markets.  

Regulatory Risks:  

Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and growth. Insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of this supervision and regulation is the protection of our policyholders, not our investors. State agencies have broad administrative power over numerous aspects of our business, including premium rates and other terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our insurance subsidiaries, marketing practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital adequacy, solvency, reserves, and permitted investments. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, or initiate procedures to revoke licenses or approvals. The insurance laws, regulations and policies currently affecting Torchmark and its insurance subsidiaries may change at any time, possibly having an adverse effect on our business. Should these changes to our business occur, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines.  

We cannot predict the timing or substance of any future regulatory initiatives. In recent years, there has been increased scrutiny of insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, by insurance regulatory authorities, which has included more extensive examinations and more detailed review of disclosure documents. These regulatory authorities may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties, or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Additionally, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent any particular regulatory authority’s interpretation of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions that we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business.  

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Record and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 establishes a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury, and the Affordable Care Act created the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO), originally established under the Department of Health and Human Services and subsequently transferred to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The creation of these insurance regulatory offices may indicate that the federal government intends to play a larger role in the direct regulation of the insurance industry. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the FIO and CCIIO, as well as any other proposals for federal regulation of insurance could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  

Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could increase our tax costs. Changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions affecting the insurance industry could increase our effective tax rate and lower our net income.  

Changes in accounting standards issued by accounting standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements and reduce our profitability. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America  

10  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (GAAP), which principles are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, standard setters have a full agenda of unissued topics under review at any given time, any of which have the potential to negatively impact our profitability.  

If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our insurance subsidiaries are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) and in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as that term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, whether by us or by one of our business associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations and could include material fines and penalties, various forms of damages, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and injunctive relief.  

Litigation Risk:  

Litigation could result in substantial judgments against us or our subsidiaries. We are, and in the future may be, subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants, and, in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Members of our management and legal teams review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. However, the outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. A number of civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers in the jurisdictions in which Torchmark and its insurance subsidiaries do business involving the insurers’ sales practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly supervise agents, and other matters. These lawsuits have resulted in the award of substantial judgments against insurers that are disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive damages. In some states in which we operate, juries have substantial discretion in awarding punitive damages. This discretion creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments in any given punitive damages suit.  

Our pending and future litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, the costs of settlement or judgments against us, or changes in our operations that could result from litigation. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal actions could also have a material financial effect or cause significant harm to our reputation, which, in turn, could materially harm our business and our business prospects.  

Catastrophic Event Risk:  

Our business is subject to the risk of the occurrence of catastrophic events. Our insurance policies are issued to and held by a large number of policyholders throughout the United States in relatively low-face amounts. Accordingly, it is unlikely that a large portion of our policyholder base would be affected by a single natural disaster. However, our insurance operations could be exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, caused by events such as a pandemic, an act of terrorism, or another event that causes a large number of deaths or injuries across a wide geographic area. These events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity and geographic scope, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total number of policyholders in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes, and man-made catastrophes, including terrorism and war, may produce significant claims in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition.  

Information Technology Risk:  

The occurrence of computer viruses, network security breaches, disasters, or other unanticipated events could affect the data processing systems of Torchmark or its subsidiaries and could damage our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A computer virus could affect the data processing systems of Torchmark or its subsidiaries, destroying valuable data or making it difficult to conduct business. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems.  

We retain confidential information in our computer systems and rely on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states require that customers be notified of unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of their information. Any compromise of the security of our computer systems that results in inappropriate access, use, or disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability, and require us to incur significant technical, legal, and other expenses.  

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, or a terrorist attack or war, our computer systems may be inaccessible to our employees or customers for a period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

As of December 31, 2012, Torchmark had no unresolved staff comments.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Item 2. Properties