ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Risk Management

We have established a risk committee comprised of senior level leadership from our financial, strategic, governance, administrative and operational functions. The risk committee’s responsibilities include the performance of an annual review to assess and prioritize the Company’s risks. Our financial, strategic, governance and operational risks’ subject matter experts participate in this annual assessment. The risk committee and other groups in the organization assess the status and effectiveness of risk prevention and mitigation activities, identify emerging risks and facilitate management’s development of our risk assessment and management practices. In addition, the risk committee meets monthly to review priority risks, risk prevention and mitigation activities and the Company’s emerging risks. Our risk committee chairman presents a quarterly risk update to executive management and an annual update to our Board of Directors concerning the status and effectiveness of our risk prevention and mitigation activities, emerging risks and risk assessment and management practices.

The risk committee has a responsibility to assess and advise management on the system of controls the Company has put in place to ensure procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. The Company has put in place controls designed to:

•create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy;

•provide for authorization by the appropriate levels of management;

•provide for segregation of duties;

•maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and

•have key performance indicators in place to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities.

Commodity Price Risks

Our primary source of market risk is the difference between the prices we sell our refined products for and the prices we pay for crude oil and other feedstocks. We use derivative instruments to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil and refined products, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or to capture market opportunities. We believe the governance structure that we have in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of our commodity optimization, inventory management and trading activities.

Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin, relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks), at which we are able to sell our refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products fluctuate substantially and depend on many factors including the global supply and demand for crude oil and refined products. This demand is impacted by changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we sell our refined products for are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.

Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. In most cases, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices will impact profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our average throughput over the last six months of 824 Mbpd, would change annualized pre-tax operating income by approximately $301 million. This analysis may differ from actual results.

We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 39 million barrels and 25 million barrels at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2013 was approximately $65 per barrel compared to market prices of approximately $110 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory to the market value.

 72
We use non-trading derivative instruments to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products and inventories above or below our target levels. We also use these instruments to manage price risk for crude oil held in connection with arbitrage opportunities where the price of crude oil is higher in the future than the current spot price. For the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products to be used in our normal operations, we usually enter into physical commodity forward purchase and sale contracts (“Forward Contracts”) which are not typically classified and reported as derivatives for accounting purposes. The gains or losses associated with these Forward Contracts are recognized as incurred in our financial statements separate from the gains or losses associated with other derivative instruments reported below and in Note L to our financial statements in Item 8. 

Also, we may enter into derivative contracts such as exchange-traded futures, over-the-counter swaps, options and over-the-counter options, all of which had remaining durations of less than one year as of December 31, 2013, to manage price risk associated with our physical commodity Forward Contracts or to take advantage of other market opportunities. We mark-to-market these derivative instruments each period during the contract term which can create timing differences for gain or loss recognition in our financial statements. The derivative gains or losses reported below exclude the losses or gains, respectively, from our physical commodity Forward Contracts. Both the derivative and the physical commodity Forward Contracts’ gains and losses are reflected in our gross refining margin in the refining segment. We evaluate our performance based on all contract types available to manage our risk which includes contracts that may or may not be classified and reported as derivatives for accounting purposes.

We believe we have strong governance over our commodity activities including regular monitoring of the performance of our risk management strategies and limits over dollar and volume based transactional authority, commodity position, aggregate spread, stop-loss and value-at-risk. Performance against our strategies and authorized limits is monitored daily via position reports and profit and loss analysis and is reviewed on a regular basis, at least monthly, by our risk committee.

Net earnings during 2013 and 2012 included net losses of $147 million and $28 million, respectively, on our commodity derivative positions comprised of the following (dollars in millions and volumes in millions of barrels or bushels):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our open derivative positions at December 31, 2013, will expire at various times through 2014. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments that may differ from actual results. Based on our open net positions of 7 million barrels at December 31, 2013, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, could change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pre-tax operating income by approximately $7 million.

Counterparty Credit Risk

We have exposure to concentrations of credit risk related to the ability of our counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations, and the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Concentrations of customers within the refining industry may affect our overall exposure to counterparty risk because these customers may be similarly impacted by changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, financial services companies are the counterparties in certain of our price risk management activities, and such financial services companies could be adversely impacted by periods of uncertainty and illiquidity in the credit or capital markets. We have credit risk management policies in place, and continue to monitor closely the status of our counterparties. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, and in certain circumstances, require prepayments, letters of credit or other collateral.

 73
Interest Rate Risk

Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Variable-rate debt, such as borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. Fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to rates higher than the current market. The fair value of our debt was estimated primarily using quoted market prices. The carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012. We currently do not use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate risk; however, we continue to monitor the market and our exposure and, in the future, we may enter into these transactions to mitigate risk. We believe in the short-term we have acceptable interest rate risk and continue to monitor the risk on our long-term obligations. With all other variables constant, a 0.25% change in the interest rate associated with the borrowings outstanding under our Term Loan Facility at December 31, 2013 would change annual interest expense by approximately $1 million. This analysis may differ from actual results. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility or the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2013.

 74
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA