Part I  

 Item 1. Business.  

 Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley had 48,256 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the fiscal years ended November 30, 2007, November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

 Available Information.  

Morgan Stanley files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.  

Morgan Stanley’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access Morgan Stanley’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:  

   •    Composite Certificate of Incorporation;  

   •    Bylaws;  

   •    Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee;  

   •    Corporate Governance Policies;  

   •    Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;  

1  

Table of Contents 

   •    Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;  

   •    Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;  

   •    Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;  

   •    Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; and  

   •    Integrity Hotline.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan Stanley’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

 Business Segments.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments follows.  

Institutional Securities includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.  

Asset Management provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and fund of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and Morgan Stanley’s institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.  

On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of Discover Financial Services (the “Discover Spin-off”).  

 Institutional Securities.  

Morgan Stanley provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

Investment Banking.  

Capital Raising. Morgan Stanley manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”).   

2  

Table of Contents 

 Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Financial Advisory Services. Morgan Stanley provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense strategies, joint ventures, privatizations, recapitalizations, spin-offs, corporate restructurings, shareholder relations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Corporate Lending. Morgan Stanley provides to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries (including Morgan Stanley Bank) loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing. These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan Stanley.* The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.**  

Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. Morgan Stanley’s Institutional Securities business includes Equity and Proprietary Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities and Clients and Services.  

Equity and Proprietary Trading. Morgan Stanley acts as principal (including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

Morgan Stanley’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors, including principal-protected securities.  

Morgan Stanley has several dedicated trading groups which engage in proprietary trading and investing activities utilizing multiple strategies across various cash and derivative asset classes including, among others, equity securities, quantitative and program driven strategies, commodities, currencies, interest rates, emerging markets, bonds, loans, corporate credit, as well as mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities.  

Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies. Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money market and other short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. government securities and a member of the selling groups  

 * Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in “Sales and Trading Activities.”  

 ** The description set forth under “Sales and Trading Activities” reflects organizational changes implemented since December 2007. See also “Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A for a description of Morgan Stanley’s trading risk management structure, policies and procedures.  

3  

Table of Contents 

 that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.  

Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in foreign currencies. Most of Morgan Stanley’s foreign exchange business relates to major foreign currencies such as Yen, Euro, Sterling, Swiss francs and Canadian dollars. Morgan Stanley trades on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets and takes proprietary positions in such currencies.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, Morgan Stanley acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes.  

Morgan Stanley advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley structures debt securities and derivatives with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

Commodities. Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) and related products and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns five electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and the Heidmar Group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

Clients and Services. Morgan Stanley provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. Morgan Stanley also engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers. In addition, Morgan Stanley’s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.  

Other Activities.  

Benchmark Indices and Risk Management Analytics. As of November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley’s majority-owned subsidiary, MSCI Inc. (“MSCI®”), calculates and distributes over 100,000 international and U.S. equity benchmark indices (including the MSCI World and EAFE® Indices) covering 56 countries, and has a historical database spanning over 35 years that includes fundamental and valuation data on thousands of equity securities in developed and emerging market countries. MSCI also calculates and distributes over 200 hedge fund indices. MSCI’s subsidiary, Barra, Inc., is a leading provider of risk analytic tools and services to investors to help them   

4  

Table of Contents 

 analyze, measure and manage portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. The initial public offering of shares of MSCI began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on November 15, 2007. After this offering, Morgan Stanley continues to own in excess of 80 percent of MSCI.  

Research. Morgan Stanley’s global research department (“Research”) consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts. Research engages in equity and fixed income research activities and produces reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S. Research provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends. Research provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded. Research reports and data are disseminated to investors through third party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley’s sales forces.  

Investments. Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or principal investing activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are capital commitments provided to public and private companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley expects to make additional principal investments over time. These principal investment activities are conducted within the investment banking and sales and trading areas in Institutional Securities.  

Morgan Stanley sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management.”  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

 Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of approximately 8,400 global representatives in approximately 500 locations globally, including over 450 U.S. locations at fiscal year end. As of November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley had $758 billion in client assets. On April 1, 2007, Morgan Stanley merged its primary broker-dealer for Global Wealth Management Group, Morgan Stanley DW Inc., into MS&Co. Upon completion of the merger, MS&Co. became Morgan Stanley’s principal U.S. broker-dealer.  

Clients.  

Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. In the U.S., products and services are delivered through three principal channels. Specialized private wealth management   

5  

Table of Contents 

 investment representative teams located in dedicated offices provide sophisticated investment solutions and services for ultra high net worth individuals, families and foundations. Financial advisors located in branches across the U.S. provide solutions designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs for ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Morgan Stanley offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.  

Products and Services.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including Morgan Stanley’s products and services, and products and services from third party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Morgan Stanley offers brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Morgan Stanley also offers financial and wealth planning services, including education savings programs, as well as annuity and other insurance products. In addition, Morgan Stanley offers several cash management services, including cash sweeps, debit cards and checkwriting, as well as lending products, including securities based lending and a mortgage referral program, which provides residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit originated through Morgan Stanley’s affiliated entities. Morgan Stanley’s BusinesScapeSM program offers cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium businesses in the U.S. Morgan Stanley provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses. Morgan Stanley also offers trust and fiduciary services to individual and corporate clients.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. The Active Assets Account® offers clients brokerage and cash management services in one account. Clients can also choose a fee-based, separately managed account managed by affiliated or unaffiliated professional asset managers.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports the activities of Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group from trade capture through clearance, settlement and custody, including asset servicing as well as bank deposit and loan processing through Morgan Stanley’s affiliated banks. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

 Asset Management.  

Morgan Stanley Investment Management is one of the largest global asset management organizations of any full-service securities firm and offers individual and institutional clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Morgan Stanley had $597 billion of assets under management or supervision as of November 30, 2007. Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands. Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets. Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha overlays, including FrontPoint Partners LLC, a leading provider of absolute return strategies with approximately $8.5 billion in assets under management, and minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners and Avenue Capital Group. Morgan Stanley’s Merchant Banking Division, formed in 2007, includes Morgan Stanley’s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

Institutional Investors.  

Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including pension plans, corporations, private funds, non-profit organizations, foundations, endowments, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles. Morgan Stanley Investment Management also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.  

Individual Investors.  

Morgan Stanley offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells Van Kampen funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed through affiliated broker-dealers.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services, on behalf of institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

 Competition.  

All aspects of Morgan Stanley’s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan Stanley’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product basis.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on Morgan Stanley’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients continue to request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.  

Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services industries have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in Morgan Stanley’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is possible that competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to remain competitive.  

Morgan Stanley has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic stock markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

Asset Management.  

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including Morgan Stanley’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.  

 Regulation.  

Most aspects of Morgan Stanley’s business are subject to stringent regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Aspects of Morgan Stanley’s public disclosure, corporate governance principles, internal control environment and the roles of auditors and counsel are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  

New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof) either in the U.S. or elsewhere could materially adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s financial condition or results of operations. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of its business, Morgan Stanley faces complexity and additional costs in its compliance efforts.  

Consolidated Supervision and Revised Capital Standards.  

Effective December 1, 2005, Morgan Stanley became a consolidated supervised entity (“CSE”) as defined by the SEC. As such, Morgan Stanley is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. Morgan Stanley’s European regulated entities implemented Basel II capital standards on January 1, 2008. Morgan Stanley continues to work with its regulators on the implementation of the CSE rules and Basel II capital standards.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Anti-Money Laundering.  

Morgan Stanley’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA PATRIOT Act”) imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, broker-dealers and mutual funds to identify and verify customers that maintain accounts. The USA PATRIOT Act also mandates that certain types of financial institutions monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. An institution subject to the USA PATRIOT Act also must designate an AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws and regulations similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML requirements.  

Protection of Client Information.  

Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s business are subject to increasingly comprehensive legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain client information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data Protection Directive in the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures in response to such requirements.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. MS&Co. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and is a member of self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also required by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and NYSE rules to impose maintenance requirements on the value of securities contained in margin accounts. In many cases, Morgan Stanley’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

Morgan Stanley conducts some of its government securities activities through Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc., a FINRA member registered as a government securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in certain states. The Department of Treasury has promulgated regulations concerning, among other things, capital adequacy, custody and use of government securities and transfers and control of government securities subject to repurchase transactions. The rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by FINRA, govern the municipal securities activities of Morgan Stanley.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including MS&Co., are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various securities exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities either have imposed or are proposing rules relating to capital requirements   

9  

Table of Contents 

 applicable to Morgan Stanley’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules, which specify minimum capital requirements, are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net assets be kept in relatively liquid form. See also “Consolidated Supervision and Revised Capital Standards” above and Note 16 in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Part II, Item 8. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Compliance with the capital requirements may limit Morgan Stanley’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules, either in the form of cash or subordinated loans made in accordance with the requirements of the SEC’s net capital rule.  

Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities. The commodities activities in the Institutional Securities business segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. The EU has increased its focus on the energy markets, which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.  

Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan Stanley’s commodities activities are also subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.  

Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities. As a registered futures commission merchant, MS&Co. is subject to the net capital requirements of, and its activities are regulated by, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity exchanges. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators. Morgan Stanley’s futures and options-on-futures businesses are also regulated by the National Futures Association (the “NFA”), a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and certain of its affiliates are members. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

Morgan Stanley Bank, through which Morgan Stanley conducts certain financing and lending activities, is an industrial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Utah. It has deposits that are eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) in accordance with FDIC rules and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC. Morgan Stanley Bank is not considered a “bank” under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”).  

Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a federally chartered national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary activities, primarily personal trust services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured and is not considered a “bank” for purposes of the BHCA.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary which conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other activities, is a federally chartered savings bank whose activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). As a result of its ownership of Morgan Stanley Trust, Morgan Stanley is registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan holding company (“SLHC”) and subject to regulation and examination by the OTS as a SLHC. Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including Morgan Stanley Trust, are registered transfer agents subject to regulation and examination by the SEC. Morgan Stanley Trust has deposits that are eligible for insurance by the FDIC.  

Non-U.S. Regulation. Morgan Stanley’s businesses are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley maintains an office. As Morgan Stanley continues to expand its business internationally, including in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, it will become subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe regulate the Company’s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche Borse AG and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Comisión Nacional del Mercado del Valores (C.N.M.V.) regulates its activities in Spain; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Research. Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions and are proposed or under consideration in other jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. Federal and state regulators (to which Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Asset Management.  

The majority of subsidiaries related to Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities and others, including MS&Co., are registered as investment advisers with the SEC, and, in certain states, some employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.  

Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Singapore.  

11  

Table of Contents 

 Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of January 28, 2008 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

John J. Mack (63). Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (since June 2005). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).  

Walid Chammah (53). Co-President (since December 2007). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since July 2007). Head of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2002 to August 2005).  

James Gorman (49). Co-President (since December 2007). Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007) and President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (since February 2006). Head of Corporate Acquisitions Strategy & Research at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).  

Colm Kelleher (50). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006). Head of Fixed Income Sales Europe (December 2000 to May 2004).  

Gary G. Lynch (57). Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive Vice Chairman (July 2004 to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July 2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell (September 1989 to October 2001).  

Thomas R. Nides (46). Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (since September 2005). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chief Administrative Officer of Credit Suisse First Boston (June 2001 to June 2004).  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.