Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley (the “Company”) is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each of the segments follows.  

Institutional Securities includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.  

Asset Management provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and fund of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and the Company’s institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.  

The Company’s results of operations for the 12 months ended November 30, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”), November 30, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”) and November 30, 2005 (“fiscal 2005”) are discussed below.  

Discontinued Operations.  

On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the “Discover Spin-off”) of Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. DFS’ results are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. (“Quilter”), Global Wealth Management Group’s former mass affluent business in the U.K., are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of the Company’s aircraft leasing business, which was sold on March 24, 2006, are also reported as discontinued operations through its date of sale. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.  

30  

Table of Contents 

 Results of Operations.  

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

31  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

32  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts represent income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net.  

 (2) Earnings applicable to common shareholders are used to calculate earnings per share information. Fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 include a preferred stock dividend of $68 million and $19 million, respectively.  

 (3) Reflects the regional view of the Company’s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:  

   Institutional Securities: investment banking—client location, equity capital markets—client location, debt capital markets—revenue recording location, sales and trading—trading desk location. Global Wealth Management Group: global representative location. Asset Management: client location, except for the merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.  

 (4) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $30,169 million at November 30, 2007, $34,264 million at November 30, 2006 and $29,182 million at November 30, 2005, divided by common shares outstanding of 1,056 million at November 30, 2007, 1,049 million at November 30, 2006 and 1,058 million at November 30, 2005.  

 (5) The computation of average common equity for each business segment is based upon an economic capital model that estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses and their risk-generating activities through the business cycle while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor minimum requirements. The economic capital model will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to improvements in modeling techniques in order to reflect the capital required to support business activities. The effective tax rates used in the computation of segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis.  

 (6) Amounts reported for Alternatives reflect the Company’s invested equity in those funds and include a range of alternative investment products such as real estate funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.  

 (7) Amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.  

 (8) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Asset Management, Global Wealth Management Group and Institutional Securities business segments.  

 (9) Amounts represent Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (10) Source: Thomson Financial, data as of January 8, 2008—The data for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are for the periods from January 1 to December 31, 2007, January 1 to December 31, 2006 and January 1 to December 31, 2005, respectively, as Thomson Financial presents these data on a calendar-year basis.  

 (11) Percentages represent income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net, as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (12) Annualized net revenue per global representative amounts equal Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues divided by the quarterly average global representative headcount for the periods presented.  

 (13) The decline in fee-based assets as a percent of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company’s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating a Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based brokerage accounts, or at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a new nondiscretionary account launched in August 2007.  

 (14) Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.  

 (15) Bank deposits are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insured depository institutions for the benefit of retail clients through their accounts.  

 (16) Amounts include Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (17) Source: Lipper, one-year performance excluding money market funds as of November 30, 2007, November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, respectively.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2007 Performance.  

Company Results. The Company recorded net income of $3,209 million in fiscal 2007, a 57% decrease from $7,472 million in the prior year. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) declined 6% to $28,026 million in fiscal 2007. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns resulting from an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the continued deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related instruments. Included in the $9.4 billion were writedowns of $7.8 billion related to U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”). These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company’s proprietary trading group. The remaining writedowns of $1.6 billion related to other mortgage-related instruments, which included $1.2 billion relating to commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”), ALT-A (a residential mortgage loan categorization that falls between prime and subprime) and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans, European non-conforming loans and an impairment charge of $437 million related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks. The results for fiscal 2007 also included losses of approximately $700 million that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies (see “Impact of Credit Market Events” herein).  

Non-interest expenses increased 19% to $24,585 million from the prior year primarily due to higher compensation costs. Diluted earnings per share were $2.98 compared with $7.07 a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense increased 18%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues in certain of the Company’s businesses. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.37 compared with $5.99 last year. The return on average common equity in fiscal 2007 was 8.9% compared with 23.5% in the prior year. The return on average common equity from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 was 7.8% compared with 23.8% last year.  

Results for fiscal 2007 also included a gain of $168 million ($109 million after-tax) in discontinued operations related to the sale of Quilter on February 28, 2007. Results for fiscal 2006 included a loss of $125 million ($75 million after-tax) related to the sale of the Company’s aircraft leasing business (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, pre-tax results for fiscal 2007 included the $360 million reversal of the Coleman litigation reserve (see “Other Matters—Coleman Litigation” herein). Results for fiscal 2006 included non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $260 million for stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).  

The Company’s effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 24.5% in fiscal 2007 compared with 30.1% in fiscal 2006. The decrease primarily reflected lower earnings that increased the effect of permanent differences. Fiscal 2006’s income tax provision included an income tax benefit of $242 million resulting from the resolution of a federal tax audit. Excluding the benefits from the federal tax audit, the Company’s effective income tax rate from continuing operations in fiscal 2006 would have been 32.8%.  

At fiscal year-end, the Company had 48,256 employees worldwide compared with 43,124 (excluding DFS employees) at the prior year-end.  

Subsequent to the 2007 fiscal year-end, in December 2007, the Company sold equity units (the “Equity Units”) to a wholly owned subsidiary of the China Investment Corporation Ltd. (“CIC”) for approximately $5,579 million (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—China Investment Corporation Investment” herein).  

Institutional Securities. Institutional Securities recorded income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees and income taxes of $817 million, an 89% decrease from a year ago. Net revenues declined 24% to $16,149 million as record results in equity sales and trading, advisory and underwriting were more than offset by lower results in fixed income sales and trading. Non-interest expenses increased 15% to $15,332 million, reflecting higher compensation costs and non-compensation expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 24% as higher costs associated with higher levels of business activity, business investment   

34  

Table of Contents 

 and operating expenses associated with TransMontaigne Inc. (“TransMontaigne”), the Heidmar Group of companies (“Heidmar”) and Saxon Capital, Inc. (“Saxon”) were partially offset by the reversal of the Coleman Litigation reserve.  

Investment banking revenues rose 31% from last year to $5,538 million. Underwriting revenues rose 21% from last year to $2,997 million. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $2,541 million, an increase of 45% from fiscal 2006.  

Fixed income sales and trading revenues were $650 million, down 93% from a year ago. The decrease was driven by significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. The decline in credit product revenues primarily reflected the mortgage-related writedowns (see “Impact of Credit Market Events” herein). Commodity revenues decreased primarily due to lower trading results from oil liquids, electricity and natural gas products. Fiscal 2006 also benefited from revenue recognized on structured transactions. Interest rate and currency product revenues benefited from stronger revenues in interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products.  

Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a record $8,658 million. Record international results contributed to record revenues from derivative products and prime brokerage and strong results in cash products.  

Sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2007 from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value.  

In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses of approximately $1,242 million reflected loans and loan commitments largely related to event-driven lending to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks (see “Impact of Credit Market Events—Subsidiary Banks” herein).  

Principal transaction net investment revenues increased 35% to $1,459 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007’s results primarily related to realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company’s investments and higher revenues from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds. The increase also reflected higher revenues primarily related to the appreciation of investments related to certain employee deferred compensation plans.  

Global Wealth Management Group. Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $1,155 million, up 127% from the prior year. Net revenues were $6,625 million, a 20% increase over a year ago, primarily reflecting higher revenues from increased underwriting activity, higher asset management revenues reflecting growth in fee-based products and higher net interest revenue from growth in the bank deposit program. Total non-interest expenses were $5,470 million, a 9% increase from a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues. Non-compensation costs decreased 2%, primarily reflecting lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the business. Total client assets increased to $758 billion, up 12% from the prior fiscal year-end. In addition, client assets in fee-based accounts increased 3% from a year ago to $201 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to 27% from last year’s 29%. The decline in fee-based assets as a percent of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company’s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. At fiscal year-end, the number of global representatives was 8,429, an increase of 485 from a year ago.  

Asset Management. Asset Management recorded income before income taxes of $1,467 million, a 72% increase from last year. Net revenues of $5,493 million increased 59% from the prior year, reflecting significantly higher investment revenues, primarily in the merchant banking business, which includes the real estate, private equity and infrastructure businesses. The increase primarily reflected higher revenues associated with the appreciation of investments related to employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The   

35  

Table of Contents 

 increase was also due to higher asset management, distribution and administration fees primarily due to an increase in assets under management, a more favorable asset mix and higher performance fees due to growth in the alternatives business, including FrontPoint Partners (“FrontPoint”), which was acquired in December 2006. Principal transaction net investment gains for the year were $1,774 million compared with $669 million a year ago. Non-interest expenses increased 55% from the prior year to $4,026 million. Compensation and benefits expense increased, primarily due to expenses associated with certain deferred compensation plans, higher levels of business investment and higher incentive-based compensation accruals associated with increased net revenues. Non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to increased business activity, including activity from FrontPoint. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of $597 billion were up $101 billion, or 20%, from last year, primarily due to market appreciation and positive net customer inflows.  

Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2007.  

In the U.S., the moderate pace of economic growth that occurred during the first half of fiscal 2007 slowed during the second half of fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting the significant and broad-based illiquidity in the residential real estate and credit markets. Concerns about the impact of subprime loans caused the subprime-related and broader credit markets to deteriorate considerably over the course of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007, with increased volatility, significant spread widening and lower levels of liquidity and price transparency for certain products. The U.S. unemployment rate at the end of fiscal 2007 increased to 4.7% from 4.5% at the end of fiscal 2006. Conditions in the U.S. equity markets were also volatile, and major equity market indices rose during the first half of fiscal 2007 while declining during the second half of fiscal 2007, primarily as a result of mixed corporate earnings and the developments in the credit markets. The Federal Reserve Board (the “Fed”) left rates unchanged during the first half of the year. In the third quarter, the Fed lowered the discount rate by 0.50%, and in the fourth quarter, the Fed lowered both the benchmark interest rate and discount rate by an aggregate of 0.75%. The Fed acted in order to provide additional liquidity and stability to the financial markets and to contain the negative economic impact related to the residential real estate and credit markets. The Fed had not changed the benchmark interest rate since June 2006. In December 2007, the Fed lowered both the benchmark interest rate and the discount rate by 0.25% and the U.S. unemployment rate increased to 5.0%. In January, the Fed lowered both the benchmark interest rate and the discount rate by 0.75%.  

In Europe, economic growth continued to be strong, reflecting momentum in domestic demand and exports. Corporate business surveys indicated, however, that growth in Europe may be slowing. Major equity market indices in Europe increased during fiscal 2007, primarily due to strong corporate earnings, merger and acquisition activity and generally favorable economic conditions, which more than offset the difficult conditions in the credit markets in the second half of fiscal 2007. The European Central Bank raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% in fiscal 2007. The Bank of England raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% in fiscal 2007 but subsequently reduced the benchmark interest rate by 0.25% in December 2007.  

In Japan, moderate economic growth continued to be driven by exports and domestic demand. The level of unemployment also remained relatively low. Japanese equity market indices decreased during fiscal 2007 primarily due to tighter global credit conditions. The Bank of Japan raised the benchmark interest rate from 0.25% to 0.50% during fiscal 2007. Economies elsewhere in Asia expanded, particularly in China, which benefited from strength in exports, domestic demand for capital projects and continued globalization. In China, equity market indices rose during fiscal 2007. The People’s Bank of China raised the benchmark lending rate by an aggregate of 1.17% in fiscal 2007.  

Business Segments.  

The remainder of “Results of Operations” is presented on a business segment basis before discontinued operations. Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.  

36  

Table of Contents 

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by Asset Management to Global Wealth Management Group associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to Global Wealth Management Group’s global representatives. Income before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations was $2 million, $23 million and $86 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. Included in the results of Intersegment Eliminations for fiscal 2007 is a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in consolidation. In addition, the results in Institutional Securities for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company’s sale of the aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.  

37  

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues are derived from the underwriting of securities offerings and fees from advisory services. Investment banking revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment banking revenues increased 31% in fiscal 2007 and reached record levels. The increase was due to higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and equity underwriting transactions. In fiscal 2006, investment banking revenues increased 25%, primarily reflecting higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and fixed income and equity underwriting transactions.  

In fiscal 2007, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 45% to a record $2,541 million. Advisory fees in fiscal 2007 reflected a strong volume of transaction activity, particularly during the first half of fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2006, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 26% to $1,753 million, primarily reflecting a strong volume of transaction activity.  

Equity underwriting revenues increased 48% to a record $1,570 million in fiscal 2007. Equity underwriting revenues increased 17% to $1,059 million in fiscal 2006. Both periods reflected higher global industry-wide equity and equity-related activity. Fiscal 2006 reflected a strong volume of initial public offerings.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Fixed income underwriting revenues increased 1% to $1,427 in fiscal 2007 and increased 29% to $1,416 million in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2007 revenues reflected strong revenues from underwriting investment grade corporate products, as corporate issuers sought longer-term financings due to market turmoil in the fixed income credit markets. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to an increase in underwriting revenues from non-investment grade and investment grade products as the level of issuer refinancings rose due to record levels of maturing debt. Acquisition-related financing resulting from a strong market for merger and acquisition activity contributed to the increase in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006.  

At the end of fiscal 2007, the backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity underwriting transactions remained relatively strong despite current market conditions. The backlog of fixed income underwriting transactions was lower for non-investment grade products while the backlog of fixed income underwriting transactions was higher for investment-grade products, as compared with the end of fiscal 2006. The backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions is subject to the risk that transactions may not be completed due to challenging or unforeseen economic and market conditions, adverse developments regarding one of the parties to the transaction, a failure to obtain required regulatory approval or a decision on the part of the parties involved not to pursue a transaction.  

Sales and Trading Revenues. Sales and trading revenues are composed of principal transaction trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses.  

The components of the Company’s sales and trading revenues are described below:  

Principal Transactions–Trading. Principal transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s positions. The Company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its own account.  

Commissions. Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter (“OTC”) equity securities and options.  

Net Interest. Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

Total sales and trading revenues decreased 47% in fiscal 2007 and increased 37% in fiscal 2006. The decrease in fiscal 2007 reflected lower fixed income revenues and other sales and trading losses, partially offset by higher equity sales and trading revenues. Sales and trading revenues were adversely affected by the difficult market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007. The credit markets deteriorated considerably over the course of the latter half of the year with increased volatility, significant spread widening, lower levels of liquidity and reduced price transparency. These factors affected the subprime mortgage markets, including the market for collateralized debt obligations, and other structured credit product markets, leveraged lending   

39  

Table of Contents 

 markets and the effectiveness of hedging strategies. This credit environment adversely impacted the Company’s credit sales and trading and corporate lending activities. In addition, such conditions contributed to increased volatility and systematic risk reduction in the equity markets, which adversely affected the Company’s quantitative trading strategies.  

Sales and trading revenues included the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts include Principal transactions-trading, Commissions and Net interest revenues. Equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues include certain funding costs that were not previously allocated to those businesses. Other sales and trading net revenues primarily include net losses from loans and closed pipeline commitments related to investment banking, corporate lending and other corporate activities. All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a record $8,658 million in fiscal 2007, benefiting from record international revenues. The increase was driven by record revenues from derivative products and prime brokerage and higher revenues from equity cash and financing products, partially offset by trading losses in quantitative strategies resulting from unfavorable positioning. Revenues from derivative products benefited from strong customer flows. Prime brokerage generated record revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Higher revenues from financing products were primarily due to higher commission revenues driven by strong market volumes. Equity sales and trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected pursuant to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”) on December 1, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Revenues increased by approximately $390 million due to the widening of the Company’s credit spreads during the year resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, such as structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.  

Equity sales and trading revenues increased 31% to a then record $6,281 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was broad based and included higher revenues from derivatives and equity cash products, financing products, prime brokerage and principal trading strategies. Derivative revenues increased due to strong customer flows, although volatility in the global equity markets continued to be generally low. Revenues from equity cash products reflected higher market volumes, particularly in Europe and Asia. Financing product revenues also benefited from increased client activity. Prime brokerage generated record revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Global equity markets generally trended higher and created favorable opportunities for principal trading strategies. Although commission revenues increased, revenues continued to be affected by intense competition, particularly in the U.S., and a continued shift toward electronic trading.  

Fixed income sales and trading revenues decreased 93% to $650 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 results reflected significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. Credit product revenues decreased $9.4 billion, primarily reflecting mortgage-related writedowns of $7.8 billion, reflecting the deterioration in value of U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs entered into primarily by the Company’s proprietary trading group. Spread widening, lower liquidity and higher volatility resulted in lower origination, securitization and trading results across most credit product groups and also adversely affected the performance   

40  

Table of Contents 

 of the Company’s hedging strategies. The Company’s residential and commercial mortgage loan activities contributed to the significant decline in credit product revenues, reflecting the difficult market conditions referred to above, as well as continued concerns in the subprime mortgage loan sector. See “Impact of Credit Market Events” herein, detailing the Company’s direct U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures at November 30, 2007.  

Interest rate and currency product revenues increased 63% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher revenues from interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products. Commodity revenues decreased 33%, primarily due to lower trading results from oil liquids, electricity and natural gas products and lower revenues recognized on structured transactions. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). The decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, such as structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected, which was attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit spreads during the year, increased revenues by approximately $450 million (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from gains on interest rate derivatives.  

Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 41% to a record $9,291 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by record results from commodities, credit products, and interest rate and currency products. Commodities revenues increased 112% due to strong results from electricity, natural gas products and oil liquids. Credit product revenues increased 52%, primarily due to significantly improved corporate credit trading and strength in residential and commercial securitized products. Interest rate and currency products decreased 1%. Both commodity and interest rate and currency products benefited from revenues recognized on structured transactions as a result of increased observability of market value in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 02-3, “Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities” (“EITF Issue No. 02-3”). With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”) on December 1, 2006, the Company no longer applies the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In addition to the equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues include the net revenues from the Company’s corporate lending activities. In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses of approximately $1.2 billion primarily reflected approximately $700 million of mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to securities in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks (see “Impact of Credit Market Events—Subsidiary Banks” herein). The losses included markdowns of leveraged loan commitments associated with acquisition financing transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during third quarter of fiscal 2007. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. In addition, the Company’s leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this could take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity re-entering the market. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, there has been further widening in credit spreads for non-investment grade loans that, if sustained, will result in additional writedowns for these loans and commitments. The fair value measurement of loan commitments takes into account certain fee income that is attributable to the contingent commitment contract. For further information about the Company’s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk.” In fiscal 2006, revenues from corporate lending activities decreased by approximately $50 million from fiscal 2005, reflecting the impact of mark-to-market valuations on a higher level of new loans made during the year.  

Principal Transactions-Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for appreciation and to facilitate other business activities. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such   

41  

Table of Contents 

 investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

Principal transaction net investment revenues aggregating $1,459 million were recognized in fiscal 2007 as compared with $1,081 million in fiscal 2006 and $593 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily related to realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company’s investments, including Grifols S.A. and Bovespa Holdings S.A., and higher revenues from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds. The increase in fiscal 2007 also reflected higher revenues primarily due to the appreciation of investments related to certain employee deferred compensation plans. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily related to net gains associated with the Company’s investments.  

Other. Other revenues consist primarily of revenues from providing benchmark indices and risk management analytics associated with MSCI Inc. (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). Other revenues also include revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and the distribution of refined petroleum products associated with TransMontaigne, the marine transportation and logistics services associated with Heidmar, revenues associated with Saxon, a servicer and originator of residential mortgages (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements) and a commodities-related strategic investment. 

Other revenues increased 121% in fiscal 2007 and 33% in fiscal 2006. The increase in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was primarily attributable to revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and the distribution of refined petroleum products associated with TransMontaigne and higher sales of benchmark indices and risk management analytic products. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to higher revenues associated with Saxon and from the sale of a commodities-related strategic investment. 

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 15% in fiscal 2007. Compensation and benefits expense increased 10%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals for certain businesses. The increase also reflected higher costs associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Institutional Securities’ share ($190 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%, reflecting increased levels of business activity and expenses associated with acquired businesses. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 33%, primarily due to higher rent and occupancy costs in Europe, Asia and the U.S. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 30%, primarily reflecting substantially increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Marketing and business development expense increased 27%, primarily due to a higher level of business activity. Professional services expense increased 6%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs related to increased business activity. Other expenses increased 50%, reflecting costs associated with TransMontaigne, Heidmar and Saxon, partially offset by lower net litigation accruals. Fiscal 2007 results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company’s favorable outcome from the Coleman litigation. Fiscal 2006 included legal accruals related to the pending settlement of General American litigation, which was partially offset by a favorable outcome related to the LVMH litigation.  

Non-interest expenses increased 23% in fiscal 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased 36%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs resulting from higher net revenues. Fiscal 2006 also included Institutional Securities’ share ($190 million) of incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees while fiscal 2005 included Institutional Securities’ share ($193 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see “Other Matters—Senior Management Compensation Charges” herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses remained relatively unchanged. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 6%, primarily due to a $71 million charge that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real   

42  

Table of Contents 

 estate leases (see Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements). Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 32%, primarily reflecting increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Professional services expense increased 18%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs, reflecting increased levels of business activity. Other expenses decreased 48% due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters. Fiscal 2006 reflected a net reduction in legal accruals of approximately $40 million related to the IPO Allocation Matters litigation, the LVMH litigation and the settlement of the General American litigation. Other expenses in fiscal 2005 included legal accruals of $360 million related to the Coleman litigation and approximately $170 million related to the Parmalat settlement and the IPO Allocation Matters litigation.  

43  

Table of Contents 

GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Revenues also include fees earned from offerings underwritten by the Institutional Securities business segment. Investment banking revenues increased 46% and 34% in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2007 was driven by strong underwriting activity across equity, fixed income and unit trust products. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to higher revenues from equity-related offerings and unit trust products.  

Principal Transactions–Trading. Principal transactions include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer transactions. Principal transaction trading revenues increased 23% in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher revenues from derivative products, municipal and corporate fixed income securities and foreign exchange products. The increase was also due to higher revenues primarily associated with the appreciation of investments related to certain employee deferred compensation plans. In fiscal 2006, principal transaction trading revenues increased 4%, primarily reflecting higher revenue from foreign exchange products, equity linked notes and municipal fixed income securities, partially offset by lower revenues from corporate and government fixed income products and other securities.  

Principal Transactions–Investments. Principal transaction net investment revenues were $29 million in fiscal 2007 compared with $57 million in fiscal 2006 and $2 million in fiscal 2005. The results in fiscal 2007 reflected lower net gains from certain of the Company’s investments in exchanges and memberships. The results in fiscal 2006 were primarily related to realized and unrealized gains on the Company’s investments in Bolsas y Mercados Españoles and the New York Stock Exchange.  

Commissions. Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues increased   

44  

Table of Contents 

 23% in fiscal 2007 and decreased 2% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 reflected higher levels of client activity. The decrease in fiscal 2006 largely reflected lower revenues from equity products, which was related to lower agency activity with customers due, in part, to growth in other product areas, including investment banking and asset management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management, account services and administration. The Company also receives shareholder servicing fees and fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 11% in fiscal 2007 and 6% in fiscal 2006. In both fiscal years, the increase was driven by higher client asset balances in fee-based accounts. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 3% to $201 billion at November 30, 2007 and represented 27% of total client assets versus 29% at November 30, 2006. The decline in fee-based assets as a percent of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company’s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based brokerage accounts, or, at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a new nondiscretionary account launched in August 2007. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 18% to $195 billion at November 30, 2006 and increased as a percentage of total client assets to 29% of total client assets from 27% at November 30, 2005.  

Total client asset balances increased to $758 billion at November 30, 2007 from $676 billion at November 30, 2006 primarily due to higher client inflows and market appreciation. Client asset balances in households greater than $1 million increased to $522 billion at November 30, 2007 from $442 billion at November 30, 2006 and $371 billion at November 30, 2005.  

Net Interest. Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased 46% and 53% in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The increase in both periods was primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program that was launched in November 2005. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $26.2 billion at November 30, 2007 from $13.3 billion at November 30, 2006.  

Other. Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues increased 25% in fiscal 2007 and decreased 9% in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2007, the increase primarily reflected higher service fees and higher other miscellaneous revenues. In fiscal 2006, the decrease primarily reflected lower service fees.  

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 9% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses primarily due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the business. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues and investments in the business, partially offset by Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 2%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 6% primarily due to leasehold improvements and higher rental costs. Information processing and communications expense decreased 8% primarily due to lower computing costs. Marketing and business development expense increased 39% primarily due to costs associated with the Company’s advertising campaign. Other expenses   

45  

Table of Contents 

 decreased 20%, primarily resulting from a reduction in costs associated with legal and regulatory matters, which included an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation matter.  

Non-interest expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses related to Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($198 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements). Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs. In addition, fiscal 2006 expenses included Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees, including new hires (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), while fiscal 2005 included Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($48 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see “Other Matters—Senior Management Compensation Charges” herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses decreased 4%. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 6% primarily due to a $29 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 (see Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements). Professional services expense increased 15%, largely due to higher sub-advisory fees associated with growth in fee-based assets and higher costs for outside legal counsel. Other expenses decreased 20%, primarily resulting from lower costs associated with legal and regulatory matters. During fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company recorded legal and regulatory expenses of approximately $105 million and $170 million, respectively, related to ongoing regulatory, employment and branch litigation matters.  

46  

Table of Contents 

ASSET MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the acquisition of investments in real estate funds and the underwriting of unit trust products. Investment banking revenues increased 91% in fiscal 2007 and 4% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 primarily reflected higher revenues from certain real estate products. The increase in fiscal 2006 primarily reflected higher revenues from real estate products and higher equity unit trust sales, partially offset by a lower volume of fixed income unit trust sales.  

Principal Transactions-Trading. In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized losses of $129 million related to structured investment vehicles. See “Impact of Credit Market Events—Structured Investment Vehicles” herein for further discussion.  

Principal Transactions-Investments. Asset Management principal transaction investment revenues consist primarily of gains and losses on the Company’s investments in alternative investment products.  

Principal transaction net investment gains aggregating $1,774 million were recognized in fiscal 2007 as compared with $669 million in fiscal 2006. The results in both fiscal years were primarily related to investments associated with the Company’s real estate products and private equity portfolio, including employee deferred compensation plans and co-investment plans.  

Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset Management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-   

47  

Table of Contents 

 based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset Management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 37% in fiscal 2007 and 5% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher fund management and administration fees resulting from an increase in assets and a more favorable asset mix. The increase was also due to higher performance fees from the alternatives business, including those associated with FrontPoint, which the Company acquired in December 2006 (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). The increase in fiscal 2006 was due to higher fund management and administration fees, partially offset by lower distribution fees. The higher management and administration fees in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were associated with increases in average assets under management of 20% and 6%, respectively.  

Asset Management’s year-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Americas Intermediary channel primarily represents client flows through defined contribution, insurance and bank trust platforms.  

 (2) Amounts represent Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (3) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products, such as real estate funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Activity in Asset Management’s assets under management or supervision during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Americas Intermediary channel primarily represents client flows through defined contribution, insurance and bank trust platforms.  

 (2) Amount represents Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

Net inflows (excluding money markets) in fiscal 2007 were primarily associated with positive flows from non-U.S. clients. Money market net flows for fiscal 2007 were primarily associated with positive flows into institutional liquidity assets, partially offset by outflows from certain money market funds that were impacted by the growth of Global Wealth Management Group’s bank deposit program.  

Other. Other revenues increased 188% in fiscal 2007 primarily due to revenues associated with Lansdowne Partners (“Lansdowne”), a London-based investment manager, and Avenue Capital Group (“Avenue”), a New York-based investment manager, which the Company acquired minority stakes in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). Other revenues remained flat in fiscal 2006.  

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 55% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 81% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Asset Management’s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased 29% primarily due to higher rental costs associated with business growth. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 10% primarily due to increased fee sharing, increased assets under management and higher commission expenses associated with the launching of new products. These increases were offset by a decrease in the deferred commission amortization. Information processing and communications expense increased 21% primarily due to higher licensing fees associated with the acquisition of FrontPoint. Professional services expense increased 47% primarily due to higher sub-advisory fees related to the acquisition of FrontPoint. Other expenses increased 47% primarily due to an insurance reimbursement received in fiscal 2006 related to certain legal matters and an increase in other miscellaneous expenses.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest expenses increased 19% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses from Asset Management’s share ($43 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements). Compensation and benefits expense increased 37% in fiscal 2006, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs as well as the impact of new hires. In addition, fiscal 2006 included Asset Management’s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), while fiscal 2005 included Asset Management’s share ($41 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see “Other Matters—Senior Management Compensation Charges” herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses were unchanged. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 14%, primarily reflecting lower amortization expense associated with certain open-ended funds. The decrease in amortization expense reflected a lower level of deferred costs in recent periods due to a decrease in sales of certain open-ended funds. Marketing and business development expense increased 11% primarily due to higher advertising and marketing costs.  

50  

Table of Contents 

 Impact of Credit Market Events.  

Overview.  

The Company recorded $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 resulting from an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the continued deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related instruments. Included in the $9.4 billion were writedowns of $7.8 billion related to U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs. These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company’s proprietary trading group (see “U.S. ABS CDO Exposures”). As the credit markets in general, and the mortgage markets in particular, declined dramatically in the fourth quarter, increases in the implied cumulative losses in the subprime mortgage market, coupled with the illiquid nature of the Company’s trading positions, led to a significant deterioration in value in its subprime-related trading positions. A summary of the Company’s U.S. subprime trading positions, writedowns and remaining net exposures is further detailed in the table on page 53 and is discussed in “U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures” herein.  

The $9.4 billion of fourth quarter writedowns also included an impairment charge of $437 million related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks (see “Subsidiary Banks” herein) and $1.2 billion related to CMBS, ALT-A (a residential mortgage loan categorization that falls between prime and subprime) and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans and European non-conforming loans. The Company continues to have exposure to these markets and instruments, and, as market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these other mortgage-related instruments could further deteriorate.  

The valuation methodology used for these instruments incorporated a variety of inputs, including prices observed from the execution of a limited number of trades in the marketplace; ABX and similar indices that track the performance of a series of credit default swaps based on subprime mortgages; and other market information, including data on remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on the underlying mortgages. For a further discussion of the Company’s risk management policies and procedures see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A.  

For further discussion regarding the Company’s involvement with other U.S. subprime-related activities, see “Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities” and “Other Exposures to Subprime Lenders.”  

The results for fiscal 2007 also included losses of approximately $700 million primarily recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies. The losses included markdowns of leveraged loan commitments associated with acquisition financing transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. In addition, the Company’s leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments, and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this could take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity re-entering the market. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, there has been further widening in credit spreads for non-investment grade loans that, if sustained, will result in additional writedowns for these loans and commitments. For further information about the Company’s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk.”  

The Company also recognized losses of $129 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 related to structured investment vehicles (see “Structured Investment Vehicles” herein).  

U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.  

The Company’s U.S. subprime mortgage-related trading positions consist of those related to U.S. ABS CDOs and other mortgage-related exposures arising from investments in subprime loans, from asset-backed securities   

51  

Table of Contents 

 that, in whole or in part, are backed by subprime mortgage loans, and from derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities.  

Subprime mortgages are loans secured by real property made to a borrower (or borrowers) with a diminished or impaired credit rating or with a limited credit history. A borrower’s credit history is reflected in his credit report and routinely converted into a numerical credit score often referred to as a Fair Isaac Corporation (or “FICO”) score. Generally, a loan made to a borrower with a low FICO score or other credit score has historically been considered as subprime. Loans to borrowers with higher FICO scores may be subprime if the loan exhibits other high-risk factors. Such risk factors may include loans where: (a) the loan has a high loan-to-value ratio or combined loan-to-value ratios; (b) the borrower has reduced or limited income documentation; (c) the borrower has a high debt-to-income ratio; (d) the occupancy type for the loan is other than the borrower’s primary residence. There are many other risk factors, including borrowers who have purchased multiple properties or have taken previous equity withdrawal (cash out) refinancings within the last 12 to 24 month period, non-arm’s length purchase transactions and unsupported or high-risk collateral properties, among others. Subprime mortgage-related securities are those securities that derive a significant portion of their value from subprime loans.  

U.S. ABS CDO Exposures.  

The Company purchases interests in and enters into derivatives with ABS CDOs. CDOs provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of asset-backed securities (“cash CDOs”) or a reference portfolio of securities (“synthetic CDOs”). The underlying or reference portfolios consist primarily of residential mortgage-backed securities. The CDOs to which the Company has exposure are primarily structured and underwritten by third parties, although the Company also structures and underwrites CDOs, for which it receives structuring and/or distribution fees, and does from time to time retain interests in such CDOs.  

The Company’s primary exposure to ABS CDOs is to synthetic CDOs that hold or are referenced to collateral with ratings of BBB+, BBB or BBB- (“mezzanine CDOs”). The majority of the Company’s writedowns in the fourth quarter related to super senior credit default swaps referencing such mezzanine CDOs that were entered into primarily by the Company’s proprietary trading group. Under these credit default swap arrangements, the Company can be required to make payments in the event that securities in the referenced portfolios default or experience other credit events such as rating agency downgrades. (The characterization of these credit default swaps as “super senior” derives from their seniority in the capital structure of the synthetic CDO.) The Company also has exposure to ABS CDOs via other types of credit default swaps, direct investments in CDO securities, and retained interests in CDOs that the Company has underwritten. In determining the fair value of the Company’s ABS CDO-related instruments the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. Despite the fact that actual defaults on swap obligations have not yet been realized, the fair value of such positions has experienced significant declines, as a result of a deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments. These losses, as well as the Company’s net CDO exposures, are quantified in the U.S. subprime-related exposures table below.  

Other U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.  

The Company also has exposure to the U.S. subprime mortgage market via investments in subprime mortgage loans and ABS that are backed in whole or in part by subprime mortgage loans and via derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities. With respect to whole loans, the Company purchases pools of mortgage loans from third-party originators and also originates mortgage loans through its retail, wholesale and conduit channels and typically disposes of such loans by securitizing them. The Company typically retains certain lower-rated securities of such securitizations, often referred to as residual tranche securities. The Company’s other subprime mortgage-related trading exposures are quantified in the table below.  

The Company’s interests in U.S. subprime-related exposures are carried at fair value with changes recognized in earnings.  

52  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s direct U.S. subprime trading exposures (excluding amounts related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks (see “Subsidiary Banks” herein)) as of and for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. The Company utilizes various methods of evaluating risk in its trading and other portfolios, including monitoring Net Exposure. Net Exposure is defined as potential loss to the Company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of the referenced loan, assuming zero recovery. The value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market volatility. Positive net exposure amounts indicate potential loss (long position) in a default scenario. Negative net exposure amounts indicate potential gain (short position) in a default scenario. Net Exposure does not take into consideration the risk of counterparty default. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A for a further description of how credit risk is monitored. Actual losses could exceed the amount of Net Exposure.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. In addition, these amounts reflect counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are subprime-related; they do not reflect any counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are not subprime related. The $6.1 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $15.3 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $9.2 billion.  

 (2) In determining the fair value of the Company’s ABS super senior CDO-related exposures the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. Deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments have led to significant declines in the estimates of fair value. These declines reflected increased implied losses across this portfolio. These implied loss levels are consistent with losses in the range between 13% – 20% implied by the ABX indices. These cumulative loss levels, at a severity rate of 50%, imply defaults in the range of 43% – 50% for 2005 and 2006 outstanding mortgages.  

 (3) Refers to CDOs where the collateral is comprised entirely of another CDO security.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Subsidiary Banks.  

The securities portfolios of Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) and Morgan Stanley Trust FSB (collectively, the “subsidiary banks”) include certain subprime-related securities. The portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.  

At November 30, 2007, the securities portfolios totaled $9.9 billion consisting primarily of AAA-rated ABS and residential mortgage-backed securities. Of the total amount, $5.5 billion were subprime mortgage-related securities.  

The securities in the subsidiary domestic banks’ portfolios were previously classified as securities available for sale in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” (“SFAS No. 115”). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined that it no longer intends to hold these securities until the fair value of the securities recovers to a level that exceeds their initial cost. Accordingly, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions-trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on its portfolio of securities available for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified the portfolios to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective November 30, 2007.  

Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities.  

The Company’s involvement with special purpose entities (“SPEs”) and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) is discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements and “Critical Accounting Policies—Special Purpose Entities” herein. In relation to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities, the Company’s involvement with SPEs/VIEs consists primarily of the following:  

   •    Engaging in securitization activities related to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities;  

   •    Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;  

   •    Transferring whole loans into SPEs/VIEs;  

   •    Holding one or more classes of securities issued by such securitization vehicles (including residual tranche securities) and possibly entering into derivative agreements with such securitization vehicles;  

   •    Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) subprime-backed securities issued by SPEs/VIEs, whether such vehicles are sponsored by the Company or not;  

   •    Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs/VIEs (not sponsored by the Company) that hold subprime-related assets;  

   •    Providing warehouse financing to CDOs and collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”);  

   •    Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPE/VIEs, whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs/VIEs;  

   •    Servicing assets held by SPEs/VIEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs/VIEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;  

   •    Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by subprime loans.  

Other Exposures to Subprime Lenders.  

The Company provides warehouse financing to entities collateralized by residential mortgage loans. Under these lines of credit arrangements, the Company requires those entities to provide collateral in excess of the monies advanced. The Company values the collateral on a regular basis to ensure that the value of the collateral exceeds the value of the monies advanced in accordance with the collateral agreements. The Company does not carry amounts lent under such arrangements at fair value but instead carries such amounts at amortized cost. In   

54  

Table of Contents 

 addition, the Company does not fair value its commitments under such arrangements. The Company evaluates its exposure and any potential impairment under such arrangements, whether funded or committed, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“SFAS No. 5”).  

In addition, the Company had entered into derivative and lending arrangements with a third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit that provides warehouse financing to subprime lenders, where such derivative and lending arrangements are linked to the performance of the conduit’s loans to the subprime lenders. At November 30, 2007, exposure related to these arrangements was approximately $300 million. These arrangements were satisfactorily settled and terminated in December 2007. The Company had no further subprime-related commitments to the third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit as of November 30, 2007. The Company does not sponsor any commercial paper conduits.  

Structured Investment Vehicles.  

Structured investment vehicles (“SIVs”) are unconsolidated entities that issue various capital notes and debt instruments to fund the purchase of assets. While the Company does not sponsor or serve as asset manager to any unconsolidated SIVs, the Company does serve as investment advisor to certain unconsolidated money market funds (“the Funds”) that have investments in securities issued by SIVs. In 2007, widespread illiquidity in the commercial paper market led to market value declines and rating agency downgrades of many securities issued by SIVs, some of which were held by the Funds. As a result, the Company purchased approximately $900 million of such securities from the Funds during the year at amortized cost, which resulted in losses to the Company of $129 million. The carrying value of the purchased securities still held by the Company as of November 30, 2007 was $543 million. Such positions are reflected at fair value, and presented in Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt in the consolidated statement of financial condition. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, the Company purchased approximately $160 million of additional securities from the Funds and recorded losses of approximately $40 million on these securities. The Company was not obligated to purchase any of these securities and has no obligation to purchase any additional securities from the Funds in the future. The Funds continue to have investment in securities issued by SIVs, with an aggregate face value of $8.2 billion as of November 30, 2007 ($5.4 billion as of January 18, 2008.) These securities have been issued by SIVs that are predominately bank-sponsored, and meet the requirements and investment criteria to continue to be held by the Funds.  

Monoline Insurers.  

Monoline insurers (“Monolines”) provide credit enhancement to capital markets transactions. The current credit environment severely affected the capacity of such financial guarantors. The Company’s exposure to Monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by Monolines and as counterparties to derivative contracts. The aggregate direct exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2007 was $3.7 billion primarily including ABS bonds of $1.5 billion in the Subsidiary Banks’ portfolio (see “Subsidiary Banks”) that are collateralized by first and second lien subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, $1.3 billion in insurance municipal bond securities and $800 million in net counterparty exposure.  

55  

Table of Contents 

 Other Matters.  

The following matters are discussed in the Company’s notes to the consolidated financial statements. For further information on these matters, please see the applicable note:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Stock-Based Compensation.  

The Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”) using the modified prospective approach as of December 1, 2004. For further information on SFAS No. 123R, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end equity awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant.  

As a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2003 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2005); and  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2006).  

Fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2007).  

56  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four years, while fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years.  

Senior Management Compensation Charges.  

Compensation and benefits expense in fiscal 2005 included charges for certain members of senior management related to severance and new hires, which increased non-interest expenses by approximately $282 million. These compensation charges were allocated to the Company’s business segments as follows: Institutional Securities ($193 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($48 million) and Asset Management ($41 million).  

Coleman Litigation.  

In May 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. (“CPH”) filed a complaint against Morgan Stanley in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit for Palm Beach County, Florida relating to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. and Sunbeam, Inc. In June 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which included prejudgment interest and excluded certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others. In June 2005, Morgan Stanley filed a notice of appeal with the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the “Court of Appeal”) and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal.  

In March 2007, the Court of Appeal issued an opinion reversing the trial court’s award for compensatory and punitive damages and remanding the matter to the trial court for entry of judgment for Morgan Stanley. In June 2007, the Court of Appeal’s opinion became final when the Court of Appeal issued an order denying CPH’s motions for rehearing, rehearing en banc and for certification of certain questions for review by the Florida Supreme Court (the “Supreme Court”). In June 2007, the trial court issued an order cancelling the supersedeas bond that Morgan Stanley had posted. In July 2007, CPH filed a petition with the Supreme Court asking that court to review the Court of Appeal’s decision (“Petition for Review”). On December 12, 2007, the Supreme Court issued an order denying CPH’s Petition for Review.  

The Company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that the Supreme Court’s decision to deny the Petition for Review has effectively ended CPH’s civil claim against the Company. Effective November 30, 2007, the Company reversed the $360 million reserve previously established for the Coleman litigation under SFAS No. 5.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $131 million and $84 million (excluding $30 million in fiscal 2006 relating to DFS and Quilter) to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations (for example in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). At November 30, 2007, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the Company’s U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”). Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.  

Expense. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.  

57  

Table of Contents 

The assumed discount rate, which is intended to reflect the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled, is used to measure the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and to calculate the service cost and interest cost. For fiscal 2007, the assumed discount rate for all U.S. plans was selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.S. Qualified Plan liabilities. The pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based Aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. It includes only bonds of reasonable issue size and excludes certain types of bonds, such as callable bonds. As of November 30, 2007, the Company’s U.S. Qualified Plan represented 82% of the total liabilities of its U.S. pension and postretirement plans combined. The assumed discount rate for the defined benefit portion of its U.K. pension plan was selected by the Company using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.K. defined benefit pension liabilities. As of November 30, 2007, the defined benefit portion of the Company’s U.K. pension plan represented 59% of the total liabilities of its non-U.S. pension plans combined. For all other non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.  

The expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the Company’s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by adjusting the previous year’s rate by the difference in the weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the target asset allocations, taking into consideration estimated expenses and the benefits of diversification and rebalancing the portfolio. This rate is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.  

As of November 30, 2007, the Company’s U.S. Qualified Plan represented 90% of the total assets of its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans combined. The Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the expected long-term rate of return on its U.S. Qualified Plan assets would remain at 6.75% for fiscal 2007 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). There was no significant change in the fees paid by the plan or the underlying market outlook since September 2006. To better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, in May 2007, the U.S. Qualified Plan’s target asset allocation policy was changed from 45%/55% equity/fixed income to 30%/70% equity/fixed income. The effects of this change will be reflected in fiscal 2008, and the impact is not expected to be material to the Company’s consolidated results of operations. The preliminary expected long-term rate of return on U.S. Qualified Plan assets is 6.50% for fiscal 2008.  

The Company’s expected long-term rate of return on assets for its U.S. Qualified Plan was based on the following target asset allocation:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) These returns do not include the impact of diversification on the overall expected portfolio return.  

Each year, the Company compares its initial estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets for the U.S. Qualified Plan (and adjusts, if necessary) with a portfolio return calculator model (the “Portfolio Model”) that produces a range of expected returns for the portfolio. Return assumptions used are forward-looking gross returns that are not developed solely by an examination of historical returns. The Portfolio Model begins with the current U.S. Treasury yield curve, recognizing that expected returns on bonds are heavily influenced by the current level of yields. Corporate bond spreads and equity risk premiums, based on current market conditions, are   

58  

Table of Contents 

 then added to develop the return expectations for each asset class. The resulting expected portfolio investment is then adjusted downward to reflect an assumed load for expenses, which include investment and transaction fees that typically are paid from plan assets, added to the cost basis or subtracted from sale proceeds, as well as administrative expenses paid from plan assets.  

The Company uses the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to compute the expected return on assets component of pension expense. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, expected returns are computed based on a market-related value of assets. The market-related value of assets is a smoothed actuarial value of assets equal to a moving average of market values in which investment income is recognized over a five-year period. The market-related value of assets must be no greater than 120% and no less than 80% of the market value of assets. Investment income equal to the expected return on the plan’s assets as calculated for the prior year’s expense is recognized immediately. Any difference between the actual investment income (on a market-value basis) and the expected return is recognized over a five-year period in accordance with SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions” (“SFAS No. 87”).  

Other assumptions, including mortality rates, long-term salary growth and employee turnover rates, are set by the Company in consultation with its independent actuaries. These assumptions are tested every year by monitoring gains and losses, performing assumption studies as needed, and monitoring Company objectives and actuarial trends. These assumptions are adjusted whenever necessary.  

The Company amortizes (as a component of pension expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. The loss amortization component for the U.S. and the non-U.S. pension plans was $41 million for fiscal 2007 (28% of pension expense) and $51 million for fiscal 2006 (32% of pension expense).  

Impact of SFAS No. 158. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS No. 158”). Among other items, SFAS No. 158 required recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending November 30, 2007. The Company recorded an after-tax charge of $208 million ($347 million pre-tax) to Shareholders’ equity upon the adoption of this requirement. SFAS No. 158 also requires the measurement of defined benefit and postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of the fiscal year. SFAS No. 158’s requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company expects to early adopt a fiscal year-end measurement date for its fiscal year ending November 30, 2008 and currently expects to record an after-tax charge of approximately $15 million to Shareholders’ equity upon adoption.  

59  

Table of Contents 

 Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include:  

   •    Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured debt.  

Fair Value Measurement—Definition and Hierarchy. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157, effective December 1, 2006. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches, including market, income and/or cost approaches. SFAS No. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company’s assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the reliability of inputs as follows:  

   •    Level 1—Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of judgment.  

Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 1 inputs include exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are actively traded, most U.S. Government securities and certain other sovereign government obligations.  

   •    Level 2—Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, directly or indirectly.  

Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 2 inputs include: exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are not actively traded; most OTC derivatives; restricted stock; corporate and municipal bonds; certain corporate loans and loan commitments; certain high-yield debt; certain residential and commercial mortgage loans; certain mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), asset-backed securities (“ABS”), and CDO securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; structured notes; physical commodities; and mortgage servicing rights.  

60  

Table of Contents 

   •    Level 3—Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.  

Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 3 inputs include: certain corporate loans and loan commitments; certain commercial whole loans; certain mortgage loans; certain high-yield debt; distressed debt (i.e., securities of issuers encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy or insolvency); certain MBS, ABS and CDO securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; investments in real estate funds; private equity investments; and complex over-the-counter derivatives (including certain foreign currency options; long-dated commodity options and swaps; certain mortgage-related credit default swaps; derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs; and basket credit default swaps).  

The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics particular to the transaction. To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.  

Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant who holds the asset or owes the liability rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company’s own assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are accounted for at fair value.  

Valuation Techniques. Many cash and OTC contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that the Company and others are willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that the Company and others are willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the Company does not require that fair value always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. The Company’s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the Company’s best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.  

Fair value for many cash and OTC contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the impact of the Company’s own credit spreads are also considered when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including OTC derivative contracts. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors, including bid-ask spreads, credit quality and market liquidity. These adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available.  

OTC Derivative Contracts.  OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.  

Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black-Scholes option-   

61  

Table of Contents 

 pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex products, will require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes certain credit default swaps where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. Derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market for similar positions as indicated by secondary and primary market activity in the cash CDO and synthetic CDO market. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures (e.g., non-amortizing reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment. Mortgage-related credit default swaps are valued based on data from comparable credit instruments in the cash market and trades in comparable swaps as benchmarks, as prices and spreads for the specific credits subject to valuation tend to be of limited observability. For basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation between reference credits is often a significant input into the pricing model, in addition to several other more observable inputs such as credit spread, interest and recovery rates. As the correlation input is unobservable for each specific swap, it is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which external data are available. These instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

The Company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier spread curves, volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input values. Commodity derivatives are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company followed the provisions of EITF Issue No. 02-3. Under EITF Issue No. 02-3, recognition of day one profit at inception of an OTC derivative contract was prohibited unless the fair value of the contact was based on a valuation technique incorporating observable market data. With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company is no longer applying the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3.  

Other Sovereign Government Obligations. The fair value of foreign sovereign government obligations is generally based on quoted prices in active markets. When quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and seniority. These bonds are generally categorized in Levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Municipal Bonds. The fair value of municipal bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations and pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Corporate Bonds. The fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads. The spread data used are for   

62  

Table of Contents 

 the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer is used. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates based on collateral values as key inputs. Corporate bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the hierarchy.  

Corporate Loans and Loan Commitments. The fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where observable) and market observable credit default swap levels along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The fair value of contingent corporate loan commitments is estimated by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of these commitments also takes into account certain fee income. While certain corporate loans, closed loan commitments and revolving loans are Level 2 instruments, certain other corporate loans and contingent corporate loan commitments are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Mortgage Loans. The valuation of mortgage loans depends upon the exit market for the loan. Loans not intended for securitization are valued based on the analysis of the underlying collateral performance, capital structure and market spreads for comparable positions as prices and/or spreads for specific credits tend to be unobservable. Where comparables do not exist, such loans are valued based on origination price and collateral performance (credit events) since origination. These loans are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

The Company also holds certain loan products and mortgage products with the intent to securitize them. When structuring of the related securitization is substantially complete, such that the value likely to be realized in a current transaction is consistent with the price that a securitization entity will pay to acquire these products, the Company marks them to the expected securitized value. Factors affecting the value of loan and mortgage products intended to be securitized include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratio, updated cumulative loan loss data, prepayment rates, yields, investor demand, any significant market volatility since the last securitization, and credit enhancement. While these valuation factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions may require significant judgment. These instruments are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

U.S. Agency Securities. U.S. agency securities include To-be-announced (“TBA”) securities and mortgage pass-through certificates. TBA securities are liquid and have quoted market prices. Fair value of mortgage pass-through certificates is determined via a simulation model, which considers different rate scenarios and historical activity to calculate a spread to the comparable TBA security. U.S. agency securities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities and Asset-Backed Securities (“ABS”). CMBS and ABS may be valued based on external price/spread data. When position-specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable bonds. Included in this category are certain interest-only securities, which, in the absence of market prices, are valued as a function of observable whole bond prices and cash flow values of principal-only bonds using current market assumptions at the measurement date. CMBS and ABS are categorized in Level 3 if external prices are unobservable; otherwise they are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions. The Company engages in securitization activities related to various types of loans and bonds. The Company may retain interests in securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. To determine fair values, observable inputs are used if available. Observable inputs, however, may not be available for certain retained interests so the Company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks   

63  

Table of Contents 

 involved. When there are no significant unobservable inputs, retained interests are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. When unobservable inputs are significant to the fair value measurement, albeit generally supportable by historical and actual benchmark data, retained interests are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Investments in Private Equity and Real Estate. The Company’s investments in private equity and real estate take the form of direct private equity investments and investment in private equity and real estate funds. The transaction price is used as the best estimate of fair value at inception. When evidence supports a change to the carrying value from the transaction price, adjustments are made to reflect expected exit values. Ongoing reviews by Company management are based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating valuations that consider the evaluation of financing and sale transactions with third parties, expected cash flows and market-based information, including comparable company transactions, performance multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. These nonpublic investments are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently, and, therefore, the fair value is unobservable.  

Physical Commodities. The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products, metals and agricultural products. Fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Deposits. The fair value of certificates of deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. These deposits are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Structured Notes. The Company issues structured notes that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models described in this section for the derivative and debt features of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates. The impact of the Company’s own credit spreads also is included based on the Company’s observed secondary bond market spreads. Most structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Reclasses from Level 2 to Level 3. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company reclassified approximately $7.0 billion of funded assets and $279 million of net derivative contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became unobservable. These reclasses were primarily related to the continued market and liquidity deterioration in the mortgage markets. The most material transfers to Level 3 were in commercial whole loans, residuals from residential securitizations, interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds as well as commercial and residential credit default swaps.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model’s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control, Market Risk and Credit Risk Departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model.  

Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral (“margining”) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company’s recorded fair value   

64  

Table of Contents 

 for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products.  

Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.  

The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate.  

The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any.  

See Notes 2, 15 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.  

Special Purpose Entities.  

The Company enters into a variety of transactions with special purpose entities, primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds   

65  

Table of Contents 

 and other types of financial instruments. In most cases, these SPEs are deemed to be variable interest entities. Unless a VIE is determined to be a qualifying special purpose entity (“QSPE”), the Company is required under accounting guidance to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date upon which the Company becomes involved with it to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company must consolidate the VIE. QSPEs are not consolidated.  

In accordance with accounting guidance, the Company reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. If the Company’s initial assessment results in a determination that it is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then the Company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:  

   •    Changes to the VIE’s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.  

   •    Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.  

If the Company’s initial assessment results in a determination that it is the primary beneficiary, then the Company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:  

   •    Changes to the VIE’s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.  

   •    A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to unrelated parties.  

   •    The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.  

The determination of whether an SPE meets the accounting requirements of a QSPE requires significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved in determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires significant judgment (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.  

The Company’s results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. In addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. Such factors also may have an impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

66  

Table of Contents 

 Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. These committees, along with the Company’s Treasury Department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the Company’s liquidity and capital policies. For a description of the Company’s other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A.  

The Company’s liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the Company’s business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. The principal elements of the Company’s liquidity management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan, the Liquidity Reserve and the Cash Capital Policy. Comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. Given the nature of the Company’s market-making and customer financing activities, the size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing and managing its business.  

The Company’s total assets decreased to $1,045,409 million at November 30, 2007 from $1,121,192 million at November 30, 2006. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to resell and the completion of the Discover Spin-off (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by an increase in cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations and securities received as collateral.  

Within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities, there are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. Securities financing assets and liabilities as of November 30, 2007 were $587 billion and $559 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, customer receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash.  

Securities financing assets and liabilities include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. These matched book transactions are to accommodate customers, as well as to obtain securities for the settlement and finance of inventory positions. The customer receivable/payable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in order to satisfy regulatory requirements. The Company’s exposure on these transactions is limited by collateral maintenance policies, which in turn limits the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets was $82 billion that, in accordance with SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (“SFAS No. 140”) represented equal and offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

Balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company’s overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure   

67  

Table of Contents 

 of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. The Company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. These low-risk assets generally are attributable to the Company’s matched book and securities lending businesses. Adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46R”). Gross assets are also reduced by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements. The adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders’ equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. These characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the Company’s option by a further 19 years; others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the Company’s ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. Excluding the $82 billion of assets and liabilities recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 140 would reduce the leverage ratio from 32.6x to 30.0x.  

The following table sets forth the Company’s total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

68  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Average balances for fiscal 2007 were calculated based upon month-end balances from November 2006 through November 2007. Average common equity was adjusted for the Discover Spin-off.  

 (2) The results for the Company and for the Institutional Securities business segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 were adjusted (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (3) In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the adjusted assets calculation was revised in order to reduce gross assets by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements. All prior periods have been restated to conform with the current presentation.  

 (4) Effective December 1, 2006, mortgage servicing rights have been included in net intangible assets. Amounts as of November 30, 2006 have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.  

 (5) Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders’ equity.  

 (6) Adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders’ equity.  

Activity in Fiscal 2007.  

The Company’s total capital consists of shareholders’ equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts. At November 30, 2007, total capital was $191,085 million, an increase of $28,951 million from November 30, 2006. The Company redeemed all $66 million of its outstanding Capital Units on February 28, 2007.  

During the 12 months ended November 30, 2007, the Company issued senior notes with a carrying value aggregating $76.1 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating $35.2 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) trading levels. At November 30, 2007, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company’s Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Company’s senior debt indentures) was approximately $207 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.5 years at November 30, 2007. Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through December 31, 2007, the Company’s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $10 billion. In addition, in December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. See “China Investment Corporation Investment” herein.  

69  

Table of Contents 

China Investment Corporation Investment.  

In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units which include contracts to purchase Company common stock (see “Stock Purchase Contracts” herein) to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC’s ownership in the Company’s common stock, including the maximum number of shares of common stock to be received by CIC upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the Company’s total shares outstanding based on the total shares outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC will be a passive financial investor and will have no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds will be treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.  

Each stock purchase contract mandatorily settles in Company common stock at prices between $48.0700 and $57.6840. The maximum number of shares to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts included in the Equity Units is approximately 116,063,000. The stock purchase contracts settle for Company common stock on August 17, 2010, subject to adjustment. Each Equity Unit will pay a fixed annual payment rate of 9% payable quarterly.  

As described below, the Equity Units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A (“Series A Trust”), Morgan Stanley Capital Trust B (“Series B Trust”) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C (“Series C Trust”) (each a “Morgan Stanley Trust” and, collectively, the “Trusts”) and stock purchase contracts issued by the Company. The only assets held by the Series A Trust, Series B Trust and Series C Trust are junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company.  

Equity Units.   

Each Equity Unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of:  

 (i) an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Series A Trust, Series B Trust or Series C Trust with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and  

 (ii) a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company.  

Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Trust Preferred Securities.  

In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to SFAS No. 159. The common and trust preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities—the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A Trust, Series B Trust and Series C Trust will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%.  

The trust common securities, which are held by the Company, represent an interest in the Trusts and are recorded as an equity method investment in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts are VIEs in accordance with FIN 46R and the Company does not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as it is not the primary beneficiary of any of the Trusts.  

The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. If the Company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a Morgan Stanley Trust, such Morgan Stanley Trust will not be able to pay any amounts payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. In that event, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to   

70  

Table of Contents 

 rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities is paid, the amounts payable with respect to the trust preferred securities upon liquidation of the Morgan Stanley Trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the Equity Unit holders are pledged to the Company to collateralize the obligations of the Equity Unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The Equity Unit holders may substitute certain zero-coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts.  

Stock Purchase Contracts.  

Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average prices of the common stock during a specified 20-day period ending three days immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date (“applicable market value”). If the applicable market value of the Company’s common stock is less than the threshold appreciation price of $57.6840 but greater than $48.0700, the reference price, the settlement rate will be a number of shares of the Company’s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the applicable market value. If the applicable market value is less than or equal to the reference price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company’s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the reference price. If the applicable market value is greater than or equal to the threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company’s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the threshold appreciation price. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Company will receive proceeds of approximately $5,579 million and issue up to approximately 116,063,000 shares of its common stock. The stock purchase contract may be settled early at the option of the holder at any time prior to the second business day immediately preceding the beginning of the first remarketing period. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate, subject to adjustment.  

The initial quarterly distributions on the Series A, Series B and Series C trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts of 3%, result in the 9% yield on the Equity Units.  

If the Company defers any of the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 9% until paid, to the extent permitted by law.  

The present value of the future contract adjustment payments due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400 million and was recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in Shareholders’ equity in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrete over the term of the stock purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to Interest expense. When the contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance.  

Calculation of Impact on Average Diluted Common Shares Outstanding Prior to Settlement of Stock Purchase Contract.  

Prior to the issuance of common stock upon settlement of the stock purchase contract, the impact of the Equity Units will be reflected in the Company’s earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock method, as defined by SFAS No. 128, “Earnings Per Share.” Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share will be calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the   

71  

Table of Contents 

 average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period.  

Dilution of net income per share will occur (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares is over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares for a reporting period is between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and is greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period.  

Upon settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract, the amount of common shares issued in settlement of the contract will be included in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the reporting period.  

Economic Capital.  

The Company’s economic capital model estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses and their risk-generating activities through the business cycle while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor minimum requirements. The economic capital model will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate improvements in modeling techniques in order to reflect the capital required to support business activities.  

Economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. Each business segment is capitalized as if each were an independent operating entity. This process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk and associated cost of required capital, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns (such as return on equity and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions.  

The Company’s methodology is based on a going-concern approach that assigns equity to each business based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, including principal investment risk. Regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets, is a minimum requirement to ensure the Company’s access to funding and credibility in the market. The Company believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. The difference between the Company’s consolidated book equity and aggregate equity requirements denotes the Company’s unallocated capital position, which is not currently reflected in business segment performance metrics.  

The Company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. Market risk scenarios capture systematic, idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. Credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. Business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. Operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the Company.  

Beginning in fiscal 2007, economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 equity (including common shareholders’ equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments and deductions of certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets), subject to regulatory limits.  

72  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the Company’s allocated average Tier 1 equity (“economic capital”) for fiscal 2007 and average common equity for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in capital allocated to Institutional Securities from the prior-year period reflects the increased market and credit risk profile as well as capital required for new acquisitions and investments. The Company expects to continue deploying capital, provided market opportunities continue to warrant such investments. The decrease in the economic capital allocated to the Global Wealth Management Group was due to the Company’s reassessment of the amount of capital required to support the market risks and credit risks in this business segment. The incremental equity capital allocated to Asset Management primarily represents capital required for acquisitions and investments in asset management products.  

The Company’s unallocated economic capital was $(2.7) billion at November 30, 2007 due to the loss recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and increased capital assigned to the Institutional Securities business segment. In December 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with CIC as a long-term financial investor and issued new capital of approximately $5,579 million through Equity Units. These Equity Units will help to further bolster the Company’s capital position and enhance growth opportunities globally while also building on the Company’s deep historic ties and market leadership in China (see “China Investment Corporation Investment” herein).  

The Company continues to believe that it is adequately capitalized. The Company generally uses available unallocated capital for organic growth, additional acquisitions, and other capital needs including repurchases of common stock while maintaining adequate internal capital ratios.  

During fiscal 2007, the Company’s shareholders’ equity has been affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 158 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements), SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 (see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements), and the Discover Spin-off (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Equity Capital Management Policies. The Company’s senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the Company’s equity capital base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. Capital is required for, among other things, the Company’s inventories, underwritings, principal investments, bridge loans and other financings, investments in fixed assets and for future uses. Capital for future uses will be included within unallocated capital until required by the business segments. The Company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the Company is operating and its peer group’s results. In this regard, the Company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines   

73  

Table of Contents 

 and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity.  

At November 30, 2007, the Company’s equity capital (which includes shareholders’ equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $36,145 million, a decrease of $4,103 million from November 30, 2006, primarily due to the Discover Spin-off. The Company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased approximately $3.8 billion of its common stock (approximately 52 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $72.65 (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5).  

In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This share repurchase authorization replaced the Company’s previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.3 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.  

The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In December 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $379.66 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.37966).  

Liquidity Management Policies.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity management and financing activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments. Given the highly liquid nature of the Company’s balance sheet, funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of collateralized financing. The Company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the Treasury Department. The Company maintains a liquidity management framework in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand a contraction in credit availability. The framework components include the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”), Liquidity Reserve and Cash Capital.  

Contingency Funding Plan. The Company maintains a CFP to manage a potential prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and to provide the ability to conduct business in an orderly manner. The CFP is produced on a parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. The CFP sets forth a course of action to ensure effective management of a liquidity event. Liquidity risk exposures are regularly evaluated and reported to the Firm Risk Committee and appropriate business segment risk committees.  

The Company’s CFP model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks.  

74  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s CFP is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. In addition, the CFP assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities.  

Liquidity Reserve. The Company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in the CFP. This liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. The Company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. The U.S. and non-U.S. components, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists of U.S. and European government bonds and other high-quality collateral. The Company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company’s funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s liquidity reserves on a parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. The liquidity held on the bank and non-bank subsidiary level is generally not available to the parent.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash Capital. The Company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. Sources of cash capital include the parent company’s equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. Uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments.  

The Company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. The Company’s equity capital of $36,145 million (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts of $4,876 million) and long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $154,940 million comprised the Company’s total capital of $191,085 million as of November 30, 2007, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements.  

Committed Credit Facilities.  

The maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the Company’s funding sources. The Company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. The committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the Company covering geographic regions, including North America, Europe and Asia.  

The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar   

75  

Table of Contents 

 tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and British pound, all of which exist with the Company as the sole borrower. Under this combined facility (the “Credit Facility”), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.6 billion under the U.S. dollar tranche, 80 billion Japanese yen under the Japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. The Credit Facility expires on April 16, 2008 and includes a term-out feature that allows the Company, at its option, to extend borrowings under the Credit Facility for an additional one year beyond the expiration date. At November 30, 2007, the Company had a $13.8 billion consolidated stockholders’ equity surplus as compared with the Credit Facility’s covenant requirement.  

The Company anticipates that it may utilize the Credit Facility for short-term funding from time to time. The Company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its Credit Facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the Credit Facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. At November 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.  

The Company also maintains a committed bilateral credit facility to support general liquidity needs. This facility is expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs.  

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed a replacement capital covenant in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenant, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

Funding Management Policies.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources include the Company’s equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; U.S., Canadian, European, Japanese and Australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the Company’s bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.  

The Company’s bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase Federal Funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. Interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. Savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. Brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the Company’s bank subsidiaries. Other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit.  

The Company’s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the Company’s funding sources. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed   

76  

Table of Contents 

 to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. The Company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. In addition, the Company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs.  

Secured Financing. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings.  

The Company’s goal is to encourage funding through collateralized borrowings in order to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured financing. The Institutional Securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business segment continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity.  

In addition, the Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.  

Unsecured Financing. The Company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. In general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).  

The Company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its Cash Capital Policy. In addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the Company’s liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.  

The Company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. This approach gives the Company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. Down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. Liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the Company’s ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company.  

During fiscal 2007, the Company’s long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. As a result, for fiscal 2007, a principal amount of $53 billion of unsecured debt was issued (of which $22 billion of equity-linked and credit-linked notes were not considered to be a component of the Company’s cash capital). Financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. Unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $30 billion.  

77  

Table of Contents 

Credit Ratings.  

The Company’s reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the Company’s short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are significant to the determination of the Company’s credit ratings or that otherwise affect its ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the Company’s level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk profile, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. A deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the Company, thereby increasing the cost to the Company in obtaining unsecured funding. In addition, the Company’s debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. At November 30, 2007, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company’s senior debt credit rating was approximately $746 million. Of this amount, $677 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.  

As of January 22, 2008, the Company’s credit ratings were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On December 19, 2006, Fitch Ratings changed the outlook on the Company’s senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative.  

 (2) On November 8, 2007, Moody’s Investors Service changed the outlook on the Company’s senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative.  

 (3) On December 20, 2007, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. changed the outlook on the Company’s senior debt from Stable to Negative. 

 (4) On July 30, 2007, Standard & Poor’s upgraded the Company’s commercial paper rating from A-1 to A-1+ and upgraded the Company’s senior debt rating from A+ to AA-. On November 8, 2007, Standard & Poor’s changed the outlook on the Company’s commercial paper and senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative. On December 19, 2007, Standard & Poor’s placed the Company’s commercial paper and senior debt ratings on CreditWatch with Negative implications.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities businesses.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated   

78  

Table of Contents 

 statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $5.3 billion at November 30, 2007, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements as well as “Impact of Credit Market Events” herein.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Guarantees. FASB Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others” (“FIN 45”), requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. FIN 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

The table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at November 30, 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Approximately $14 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments and Contractual Obligations” table below in the investment grade and non-investment grade primary and secondary lending commitments and in the letters of credit issued by subsidiaries that are guaranteed by the Company.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, other financial guarantees, investment activities, and corporate lending and financing arrangements as of November 30, 2007 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with letters of credit, other financial guarantees, and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) This amount primarily represents the Company’s outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company’s counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral and margin requirements.  

 (2) This amount represents commitments associated with the Company’s real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.  

 (3) The Company’s investment grade and non-investment grade primary lending commitments are made in connection with corporate lending and other business activities. Credit ratings for commitments are determined by the Company’s Institutional Credit Department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. Obligor credit ratings of BB+ or lower are considered non-investment grade.  

 (4) The Company records these commitments at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statement of financial condition (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (5) This amount represents commitments associated with the Company’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities.  

 (6) This amount represents lending commitments extended by the Company to companies that are secured by real estate assets of the borrower. Loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. This amount also includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $1,246 million, which have maturities of less than four years.  

 (7) These amounts represent the Company’s forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans, residential mortgage loan commitments to individuals and residential home equity lines of credit.  

 (8) This amount includes commercial loan commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group business.  

At November 30, 2007, the Company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $107 billion and $26 billion, respectively.  

80  

Table of Contents 

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations at November 30, 2007 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company’s future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of November 30, 2007 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (2) See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (3) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. Purchase obligations at November 30, 2007 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.  

Regulatory Requirements.  

On April 1, 2007, the Company merged Morgan Stanley DW Inc. (“MSDWI”) into Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (“MS&Co”). Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS&Co., became the Company’s principal U.S. broker-dealer. MS&Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS&Co. has consistently operated in excess of these requirements. MS&Co.’s net capital totaled $6,673 million at November 30, 2007, which exceeded the amount required by $4,950 million. Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (“MSIP”), a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSJS”), a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSJS consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.  

Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets (“leverage ratio”), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets (“Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio”) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets (“total risk-weighted capital ratio”). At November 30, 2007, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company’s FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.  

Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.  

Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. (“MSDP”) and Cournot Financial Products LLC (“Cournot”), which are triple-A rated derivative products subsidiaries, maintain certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. Both entities are operated such that creditors of the Company should not expect to have   

81  

Table of Contents 

 any claims on either the assets of Cournot or the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations of such entity to its own creditors are satisfied in full. Creditors of Cournot or MSDP, respectively, should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of Cournot or MSDP.  

The Company is a consolidated supervised entity (“CSE”) as defined by the SEC. As such, the Company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. During fiscal 2007, the Company was in compliance with CSE capital requirements.  

MS&Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 30, 2007, MS&Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.  

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

The Company’s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

82  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.