Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Critical Accounting Policies

In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long-term engineering and construction-type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entity’s results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 – Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures—In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress as of the balance sheet dates. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate the possible effects of variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and/or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.

We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.

The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.

Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.

As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third-party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate 

Page 34
from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In evaluating the Company's joint ventures (also referred to as "variable interest entities", or "VIEs") for accounting and consolidation purposes, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not the Company has a “controlling financial interest” in the VIE. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, the Company assesses each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and whether the Company, another entity, or multiple entities have the power to direct those activities.

 If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties, then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE.

For the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures, we use either the equity method of accounting or proportional conslidation. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest. There were no changes in facts and circumstances in the period that caused the Company to reassess the method of accounting for its VIEs.

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others— We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Like all option-pricing models, the Black-Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions with measures external to the Company, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units determined using Monte Carlo Simulations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.

Accounting for Pension Plans— The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans’ assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 6 – Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2014 range from 0.4% to 8.5%; compared to 2.4% to 8.5% for the prior year. We believe the range of rates selected for fiscal 2014 reflects the long-term returns expected on the plans’ assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans’ assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 0.6% to 8.4% in fiscal 2012 to a range of 0.4% to 9.3% in fiscal 2013. These assumptions represent the Company’s best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.

Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material effect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (“PBO”) at September 27, 2013, was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $112.4 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $20.0 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2014 would be lower (higher) by approximately $9.8 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $3.7 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used.

Page 35
Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance— In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers’ compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such liabilities in our consolidated results of operations.

In addition, as a contractor providing services to the U.S. federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.

Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment— The goodwill carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as “Europe” and “Non-Europe”. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2013 Form 10-K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and/or construction management services; and operations and maintenance services.

Our geography-based reporting units reflect the Company’s organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our Consolidated Balance Sheets) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.

U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. The valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.

For fiscal year 2011, we used a market approach for valuing our reporting units. Under this method, the fair value of our reporting units were estimated by multiplying their respective after-tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Company’s overall average market earnings multiple.

The key inputs used in the valuation model were the after-tax earnings of our reporting units and the Company’s market-driven average earnings multiple. The multiple used for fiscal 2011 was approximately 18. 

For fiscal years 2012 and 2013, we used both an income approach and a market approach to test our goodwill for possible impairment. Such approaches require us to make estimates and judgments. Under the income approach, fair value is determined by using the discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Under the market approach, the fair value of our reporting units is determined by reference to guideline companies that are reasonably comparable to our reporting units; the fair values are estimated based on the valuation multiples of the invested capital associated with the guideline companies. In assessing whether there is an indication that the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, we utilize the results of both valuation techniques and consider the range of fair values indicated. The fair values for each reporting unit exceeded the respective book values by over 60%. The key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units in our testing were: 

Income Approach

2012 Assumptions:

•Company financial projections for fiscal years 2012 to 2015

•Weighted average cost of capital of 12%

•Residual period growth rate of 3%

Page 36
2013 Assumptions:

•Company financial projections for fiscal years 2013 to 2016

•Weighted average cost of capital of 11%

•Residual period growth rate of 3%

Market Approach

With respect to the market approach, for guideline publicly traded companies reasonably comparable to the Company's reporting units, the Company used multiples ranging from 6.2 to 8.0 of EBITDA and 7.3 to 9.6 of EBIT, for the fiscal year 2012 test applied to the trailing twelve months results of operations for each of our reporting units. The Company used multiples ranging from 6.3 to 8.0 of EBITDA and 8.0 to 9.7 of EBIT, for the fiscal year 2013 test applied to the projected fiscal year 2013 financial results for each of our reporting units.

It is possible that changes in market conditions, economy, facts and circumstances, judgments, and assumptions used in estimating the fair value could change, resulting in possible impairment of goodwill in the future. The fair values resulting from the valuation techniques used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.

The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. The Company will test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011.

Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 27, 2013, or September 28, 2012. Furthermore, the Company performed an interim impairment assessment at September 27, 2013, and concluded that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of either reporting unit had been reduced to an amount below its carrying amount.

Fiscal 2013 — Overview

The Company’s net earnings increased $44.1 million, or 11.6%, from $379.0 million for fiscal 2012 to $423.1 million for fiscal 2013. The Company's growth in earnings this year was primarily facilitated by a strong performance in the Chemicals and Polymers industry. Included in earnings in the Company's fiscal 2012 was a one-time, after-tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Company's intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and other related assets ("pelletizing gain").

 Backlog at September 27, 2013, increased $1.3 billion, or 8.2%, to $17.2 billion. During the year the Company had significant sales from clients operating in the Oil & Gas-Upstream, Chemicals and Polymers, Refining- Downstream, Infrastructure, Aerospace and Defense, and Buildings industry groups and markets.

Page 37
Results of Operations

General

Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical professional services and field services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:

•Project Services (including engineering, design, architecture, interiors, planning, environmental, and similar services);

•Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting Services (including services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology and systems engineering and integration activities);

•Construction Services (encompassing traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, direct hire construction, and construction management services); and

•Operations and Maintenance Services (including services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).

The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single-responsibility, design-build contracts, to services required in the post start-up phases of a project such as operations and maintenance services.

The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Project Services revenues for the year ended September 27, 2013, increased $284.5 million, or 5.0%, from the corresponding period last year. These increases in Project Services revenues occurred principally in our North American and U.K. operations primarily in support of our clients in the Chemicals and Polymers and Refining - Downstream markets.

Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting revenues for the year ended September 27, 2013, decreased $66.3 million, or 8.6%, from the corresponding period last year. The revenues in this service type primarily relate to science, engineering and technical support services provided to our U.S. Government clients. These decreases can be attributed primarily to the winding down of one project for the U.S. federal government.

Construction revenues for the year ended September 27, 2013, increased $680.6 million, or 21.6%, from the corresponding period last year. The Company continues to experience increased activity in the Oil & Gas-Upstream market, particularly in Canada, in the Chemicals and Polymers market in the U.S. and the U.K., and in the Mining and Minerals market in the U.S..

Our Operations and Maintenance revenues for the year ended September 27, 2013, were relatively unchanged, although the mix of work changed. Operations and Maintenance revenues in our National Government Programs increased $144.6 million 

Page 38
for the year ended September 27, 2013 from the corresponding period last year, primarily as a result of an increase in our ownership of the business that manages and operates the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for the U.S. Department of Energy. That increase was offset by a $190.1 million decrease in our revenues related to our Canadian operations for the year ended September 27, 2013 from the corresponding period last year. Nevertheless we expect to see increases in our maintenance activity in our Canadian operations in the near term.

We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recorded net earnings of $423.1 million, or $3.23 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2013, compared to $379.0 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012.

Revenues increased $924.6 million, or 8.5%, from $10.9 billion for fiscal 2012 to $11.8 billion for fiscal 2013.

Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $686.4 million, or 40.3%, from $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012 to $2.4 billion for fiscal 2013. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas continue to influence activity in the chemicals market. Because there is now a large source of feedstock available outside refineries which can grow independently of the refining infrastructure, we believe more projects are now economically viable and capital is being deployed to develop these opportunities. Furthermore, our clients are looking at various options to monetize natural gas. This increased activity is primarily in the U.S. and the U.K. along with smaller increases in the Middle East and Asia.

Revenues from clients operating in the Refining—Downstream market decreased $42.4 million, or 1.8%, from $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012 to $2.34 billion for fiscal 2013. Included in revenues for fiscal 2012 were a significant amount of pass-through costs for a large U.S. based project that was winding down during fiscal 2012. Notwithstanding these decreases, we had strong sales in this market during fiscal 2013 and believe it will continue to be a strong market during fiscal 2014. Looking forward, several downstream companies have announced large capital projects and the industry is beginning to focus on compliance with the EPA TIER 3 Ultra Low Sulfur Gasoline regulations where we believe we are well positioned to support our clients with the required facility modifications. 

National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2013 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2012. Uncertainties over U.S. government budget issues and ongoing sequestration concerns remained a primary driver limiting our growth in this market. These actions had little effect on the Company's projects in backlog in this market during fiscal 2013. We believe that sequestration is slowing the release of new project opportunities in this market. Nevertheless, we had significant Aerospace and Defense awards in this market during fiscal 2013. In addition, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single-award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC-type awards.

Revenues from clients operating in the Infrastructure market decreased $69.8 million, or 6.4%, from $1.09 billion for fiscal 2012 to $1.02 billion for fiscal 2013. We believe the U.S. market should benefit from several recent bond passages and we are leveraging our capabilities in the U.S. and India into markets in the Middle East and Australia. The U.K. market 

Page 39
should improve as the government has taken further action to increase the level of infrastructure spending. We had significant wins in the U.S. market in fiscal 2013. The partial U.S. federal government shutdown has added some uncertainty to our U.S. infrastructure market, though we are experiencing little short-term disruption.

Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and Gas—Upstream market increased $124.9 million, or 15.8%, from $790.5 million for fiscal 2012 to $915.5 million for fiscal 2013. These increases were primarily a result of improvement in the Canadian oil and gas business, particularly in field services. The Company expects field services activity in the Canadian market to remain strong as we move into fiscal 2014 as projections continue to show a strong oil price forecast. We continue to see more opportunities in the Middle East, including unconventional gas development programs and large pipeline Front End Engineering and Design ("FEED") projects. The market in Europe looks positive with a number of opportunities for Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management ("EPCM") projects, FEED's for onshore terminal modifications, and long-term site-based alliances. Onshore development and production in the U.S. continues to be strong. The Australian market is being driven by the development of liquefied natural gas export projects.

Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $105.5 million, or 12.5%, from $844.0 million for fiscal 2012 to $738.4 million for fiscal 2013. The current state of the U.S. economy is impacting this market and we view this market as being flat in fiscal 2014. We see momentum building in healthcare, K-12, higher education, federal civilian, state and local, and aviation that should see this market growing in fiscal 2015. Our Buildings business continues to shift towards projects for clients in the private sector. Opportunities in the private sector business are coming from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects.

Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $162.2 million, or 29.5%, from $550.1 million for fiscal 2012 to $712.3 million for fiscal 2013. Generally, our clients in this market have been affected negatively by a general slowdown in the rate of growth in the Chinese economy; falling spot prices for iron ore, coking, and thermal coal; and weaker commodity prices - albeit these declines have occurred from prices that were generally high from a historical perspective. These trends have resulted in clients reducing their capital spending in the Mining and Minerals market. Despite this cooling market, we were able to capture additional market share during fiscal 2013. The increase in revenues in this market in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily from projects based out of the U.S. As we move into fiscal 2014 the Company is focusing on small-cap projects and maintenance-driven work for our clients in this market. The potential for legislative changes during fiscal 2014 in Australia could have a positive influence in this market as early as the later part of fiscal 2014.

Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets decreased $52.8 million, or 9.2%, from $576.3 million for fiscal 2012 to $523.5 million for fiscal 2013. Though several of our customers have delayed projects, we view this market as steady, with potential growth prospects in the areas of biotechnology-based drug development in Europe and North America and secondary manufacturing expansion in Asia, the U.K., and South America. As we move into fiscal 2014 we view this market as steady to slightly up in the U.S., U.K., Ireland, and Mainland Europe. We continue to view China as a strong market with the government emphasizing improvement in the nation's healthcare system. 

Industrial and Other includes the Pulp & Paper, High-Technology Manufacturing, Power, and Food, Beverage & Consumer Products industry groups and markets. Revenues from clients operating in the Industrial and Other markets increased $209.6 million, or 30.4%, from $690.1 million for fiscal 2012 to $899.8 million for fiscal 2013. The increases in Industrial and Other revenues were due primarily to increased activity in the Pulp & Paper market in the U.S. and the High-Technology Manufacturing market in Ireland. 

Direct costs of contracts increased $809.3 million, or 8.8%, from $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012 to $9.98 billion during fiscal 2013. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.

Pass-through costs increased $296.4 million, or 12.7%, from $2.33 billion during fiscal 2012 to $2.62 billion for fiscal 2013. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs 

Page 40
of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.4% for fiscal 2013, compared to 84.1% for fiscal 2012. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2013 as compared to last year was due primarily to a slight decrease in margins for our professional services offset by improved margins for our field services.

Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2013 increased by $42.4 million, or 3.8%, to $1.17 billion, compared to $1.13 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase in SG&A is primarily reflective of the Company's increased business activity when compared to the corresponding periods last year. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A costs have declined for fiscal 2013 as compared to the corresponding period last year.

Interest expense for fiscal 2013 increased $1.2 million to $12.9 million from $11.7 million in fiscal 2012. Interest expense in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2013 when compared to fiscal 2012 is related primarily to the accrual of interest related to a potential tax liability from an acquisition completed in fiscal 2012. 

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.5% for fiscal 2013, compared to 34.1% in fiscal 2012. The Company's lower effective income tax rate in fiscal 2013 when compared to the corresponding period last year was due primarily to an increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the U.S., and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the U.S. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.

Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

We recorded net earnings of $379 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.

Revenues increased $512.1 million, or 4.9%, from $10.38 billion for fiscal 2011 to $10.89 billion for fiscal 2012.

Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $243.6 million, or 16.7%, from $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas had an impact on the chemicals market in fiscal 2012. 

Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets increased $171.6 million, or 42.4%, from $404.7 million for fiscal 2011 to $576.3 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to a number of new and continuing projects, including projects relating to vaccine production facilities. 

Revenues from clients operating in the Refining—Downstream market increased $123.7 million, or 5.5%, from $2.26 billion for fiscal 2011 to $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase was due primarily to higher business volume principally within the Company's operations in the U.S. and Canada.

Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $100.9 million, or 22.5%, from $449.2 million for fiscal 2011 to $550.1 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to the inclusion of the revenues of the Aker Entities for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011. The "Aker Entities" refer to certain businesses that were acquired in separate transactions that were completed in February and April 2011, and which are described 

Page 41
in more detail in Note 3—Business Combinations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of the Company's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and Gas—Upstream market increased $37.1 million, or 4.9%, from $753.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $790.5 million for fiscal 2012. The increase is related primarily to higher business volume in the Company's Canadian Operations.

National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2012 were relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. We believe that uncertainties associated with sequestration (i.e., that mechanism within the Budget Control Act of 2011 that can trigger automatic U.S. government spending cuts in the event the U.S. Congress and the President fail to agree on a budget by the end of calendar 2012) caused several agencies to slow the release of work in 2012. Nevertheless, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single-award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC-type awards. 

Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $49.6 million, or 5.5%, from $893.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $844.0 million for fiscal 2012. During the year we saw shifts in this industry group towards projects for clients in the private sector; which was driven by a continuing decline in government spending. Growth in the private sector business came from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects.

Direct costs of contracts increased $344.6 million, or 3.9%, from $8.82 billion during fiscal 2011 to $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.

Pass-through costs increased $209.9 million, or 9.9%, from $2.12 billion during fiscal 2011 to $2.33 billion for fiscal 2012. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues however, decreased $67.2 million, or 1.5%, from $4.50 billion during fiscal 2011 to $4.43 billion during fiscal 2012. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 85.0% for fiscal 2011. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to improved margins for our project services (margins relating to our field services were virtually unchanged). 

Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2012 increased by $90.3 million, or 8.7%, to $1.13 billion, compared to $1.04 billion for fiscal 2011. These increases were due primarily to the SG&A expenses attributable to acquired businesses.

Operating profit was $596.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $518.9 million, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.5% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.0% in fiscal 2011. Improved margins for our Project Services contributed to this increase.

Page 42
Interest income during fiscal 2012 increased $1.1 million as compared to the prior year. Contributing to this increase was higher average cash balances on deposit in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.

Interest expense for fiscal 2012 increased $2.9 million, as compared to fiscal 2011. Interest expense in both fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase is due primarily to the inclusion of interest expense associated with acquisition indebtedness for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011.

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 35.1% in fiscal 2011. In general, the lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due to the changing geographical source of our earnings combined with an increase in the utilization of U.S. foreign tax credits. 

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 27, 2013 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office building in Houston, Texas. Please refer to Note 10—Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2014, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 27, 2013. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.

(c)Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2013, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 27, 2013.

(d)Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 27, 2013; primarily accounts payable and accrued payroll.

(e)Determined based on borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 2013 using the interest rates in effect at that time and, for our outstanding long term debt, concluding with the expiration date of the 2012 Facility, as defined below.

Backlog

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.

Page 43
The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 27, 2013 increased by$1.3 billion, or 8.2%, to $17.2 billion from $15.9 billion at September 28, 2012. The increase in backlog from September 28, 2012 to September 27, 2013 was due primarily to new awards from clients operating in the Oil & Gas-Upstream, Chemicals and Polymers, Refining- Downstream, Infrastructure, Aerospace and Defense, and Buildings industry groups and markets.

In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2013.

While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues.

Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.1 billion (or 23.8% of total backlog), $3.6 billion (or 22.9% of total backlog), and $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog) at September 27, 2013, September 28, 2012, and September 30, 2011, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).

Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $8.4 billion, or 48.4%, of total backlog at September 27, 2013 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.

Effects of Inflation

The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At September 27, 2013, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $1.26 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $779.1 million of available borrowing capacity under our $1.21 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.

During fiscal 2013, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $223.9 million from $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012 to $1.26 billion at September 27, 2013. This compares to a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of $126.8 million during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2013 we experienced net cash inflows of $448.5 million from operating activities. These cash inflows were offset by cash outflows of $157.1 million from investing activities and $59.7 million from financing activities, along with $7.8 million from the effects of exchange rate changes. 

Operations provided net cash of $448.5 million during fiscal 2013. This compares to net cash inflows of $299.8 million and $236.5 million during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The $148.7 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was due primarily to a $49.2 million increase in net earnings attributable to the Group, a $52.3 million favorable change in the Company's working capital accounts, a $19.6 million change related to the Company's defined benefit pension plans, and a $14.2 million change related to stock based compensation.

Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost-plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass-through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working 

Page 44
capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Company’s working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients — a substantial portion of which is for project-related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.

This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique to our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. The changes in cash flows relating to our working capital accounts were due simply to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts and is not indicative of any known trend or fundamental change to the underlying business. We still continue to experience delays in certain payments and have seen an increase in the length of payment terms with certain customers. We believe that this situation does not present a significant risk to the Company's cash flows. We believe the risk of not collecting substantially all of the Company's outstanding receivables is remote. Though the Company provides services in a number of countries outside the U.S., we believe our credit risk is not significant. Our private sector customers are comprised principally of large, well known, and well established multi-national companies. Our government customers are comprised of national, state, and local agencies located principally in the U.S. and the U.K. We have not historically experienced significant collection issues with either of our governmental or non-governmental customers.

We used $157.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2013. This compares to $181.1 million and $801.8 million during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company did not engage in any significant financing activity during fiscal 2013.

Additions to property and equipment totaled $127.3 million, $102.6 million, and $98.7 million for fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Included in fiscal 2013 activity are significant expenditures for leasehold improvements relating primarily to the consolidation of certain office space, expansion of office space. and relocations of certain office space, all occurring in a number of locations. 

Our financing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $59.7 million and $2.7 million during fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. This compares to net cash inflows of $556.9 million during fiscal 2011. The $57.0 million net increase in cash outflows from financing activities during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the net decrease in the Company's outstanding debt. 

The Company had $1.26 billion of cash and short term equivalents at September 27, 2013. Of this amount, approximately $932.2 million was held in the U.S. and $324.2 million was held outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada, the U.K., and the Eurozone. Other than the tax cost of repatriating funds held outside the U.S. to the U.S. (see Note 9—Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), there are no impediments to repatriating these funds to the U.S.

The total amount utilized under the 2012 Facility at September 27, 2013 was $425.9 million ($415.1 million in the form of direct borrowings and $10.8 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). Please refer to Note 5—Borrowings of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the 2012 Facility.

We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $1.26 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 27, 2013, compared to $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012. Our consolidated working capital position at September 27, 2013 was $2.15 billion; an increase of $286.9 million from September 28, 2012.

As noted in the Company's Form 8-K dated September 8, 2013, we entered into a Merger Implementation Deed with Sinclair Knight Merz (“SKM”), a 6,500-person professional services firm headquartered in Australia for an estimated purchase price of $1.1 billion. The Company has adequate cash and existing debt capacity to finance this transaction and fund our operations.

Additionally, there was $779.1 million of borrowing capacity available at September 27, 2013 under the 2012 Facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on-hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.

Page 45
The Company had $243.3 million of letters of credit outstanding at September 27, 2013. Of this amount, $10.8 million were issued under the 2012 Facility and $232.5 million were issued under separate, committed and uncommitted letter-of-credit facilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off-balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

New Accounting Pronouncements

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issues accounting standards updates (each being an "ASU") to its Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"), which constitutes the primary source of U.S. GAAP. The Company regularly monitors ASUs as they are issued and considers their applicability to its business. All ASUs applicable to the Company are adopted by the due date and in the manner prescribed by the FASB. A discussion of those recently issued ASUs most likely to affect the presentation of the Company's consolidated financial statements follows.

In February 2013, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2013-02—Comprehensive Income. ASU 2013-02 requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement of earnings or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income, but only if the amount reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about these amounts. ASU 2013-02 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2012. The adoption of ASU 2013-02 has not had a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In July 2012, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2012-02—Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. ASU 2012-02 amends Topic 350 of the FASB's ASC regarding how entities test indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for possible impairment. ASU 2012-02 permits entities first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test pursuant to ASC Subtopic 350-30. If the entity determines that is more likely than not that such asset is not impaired based on its qualitative assessment, no further testing is required. The amendments in ASU 2012-02 are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The adoption of ASU 2012-02 has not had a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Also in December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011-11—Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011-11 amends Topic 210 of the ASC and requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of their financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on their respective financial positions. The scope of this ASU includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending agreements. Entities are required to apply the provisions of ASU 2011-11 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011-11 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

Page 46
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK