PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products with an emphasis on women's health. On March 22, 2017, we acquired Cynosure, Inc., or Cynosure. Cynosure is a developer, manufacturer and supplier of a broad array of light-based aesthetic and medical treatment systems. The products are used to provide a diverse range of treatment applications such as non-invasive body contouring, hair removal, tattoo removal, skin revitalization and scar reduction, as well as the treatment of vascular lesions. The Cynosure business is referred to as Medical Aesthetics and operates as a separate business segment. As a result of our acquisition of Cynosure, we operate in five segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and through January 31, 2017, we offered products that screen donated human blood and plasma. Our primary diagnostics products include our Aptima family of assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther and Tigris), our ThinPrep System, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and, through January 31, 2017, the Procleix blood screening assays. The Aptima family of assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we developed and manufactured the Procleix family of assays, which are used to detect various infectious diseases. The Procleix blood screening assays also run on our Panther and Tigris systems. These blood screening products were marketed worldwide by our former blood screening collaborator, Grifols S.A., or Grifols, to whom we sold the blood screening business on January 31, 2017. Following the closing of this disposition, we no longer operate our blood screening business, except to the limited extent we have agreed to support Grifols.

Our Breast Health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital mammography systems, computer-aided detection, or CAD, for mammography and minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, and breast biopsy guidance systems. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images. Our clinical results for FDA approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics.

Our Medical Aesthetics segment offers a portfolio of aesthetic treatment systems, including SculpSure, PicoSure and MonaLisa Touch that enable plastic surgeons, dermatologists and other medical practitioners to perform non-invasive and minimally invasive procedures to remove hair, treat vascular and benign pigmented lesions, remove multi-colored tattoos, revitalize the skin, reduce fat through laser lipolysis, reduce cellulite, clear nails infected by toe fungus, ablate sweat glands and improve gynecologic health. This segment also markets radio frequency, or RF, energy sourced medical devices for precision surgical applications such as facial plastic and general surgery, gynecology, ear, nose, and throat procedures, back and thigh procedures, ophthalmology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, podiatry and proctology.

Our GYN Surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or Myosure. The NovaSure system involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus.

Our Skeletal Health segment offers Discovery and Horizon X-ray bone densitometers that assess the bone density of fracture sites; and mini C-arm imaging systems that assist in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle.

5
Available Information

Our Internet website address is http://www.hologic.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements, and, from time to time, other documents as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investors.hologic.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. Hologic has used, and intends to continue to use, our investor relations website, as well as our Twitter account (@Hologic), as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance.” The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding Hologic and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website address is http://www.sec.gov.

Products

We view our operations and manage our business in five principal reporting segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Financial information concerning these segments is provided in Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. The following describes our principal products in each of our segments.

Diagnostics Products

Aptima Family of Assays

The Aptima family of assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. In addition, we also offer viral load assays for the quantitation of hepatitis B virus, or HBV, hepatitis C virus, or HCV, and human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV-1 for use on our Panther instrument system. All three of these viral load assays are CE-marked and are currently marketed in Europe. In addition, our HCV and HIV-1 viral load assays are approved for sale and marketing in the U.S., and we are seeking FDA approval of our HBV viral load assay. Our Aptima products integrate a proprietary number of core technologies, including our target capture technology, our Transcription Mediated Amplification, or TMA, technology, and our hybridization protection assay, or HPA, and dual kinetic assay, or DKA, technologies, to produce highly sensitive amplification assays that increase assay performance, improve laboratory efficiency and reduce laboratory costs. Each of these technologies is described in greater detail below.

Target Capture/Nucleic Acid Extraction Technology. The detection of target organisms that are present in small numbers in a large-volume clinical sample requires that target organisms be concentrated to a detectable level. One way to accomplish this is to isolate the particular nucleic acid of interest by binding it to a solid support. This support, with the target bound to it, can then be separated from the original sample. We refer to such techniques as “target capture.” We have developed target capture techniques to immobilize nucleic acids on magnetic beads by the use of a “capture probe” that binds to the bead and to the target nucleic acid. We use magnetic separation to concentrate the target by drawing the magnetic beads to the sides of a sample tube, while the remainder of the sample is removed from the tube. When used in conjunction with our amplification procedures, target capture techniques concentrate the nucleic acid target(s) and also remove materials in the sample that might otherwise interfere with amplification.

6
Transcription-Mediated Amplification (TMA) Technology. The goal of amplification technologies is to increase the copy number of a target nucleic acid sequences that may be present in samples in small numbers. These copies can then be detected using nucleic acid probes. Amplification technologies can yield results in only a few hours versus the several days or weeks required for traditional culture methods. TMA is a transcription-based amplification system that uses two different enzymes to drive the process. The first enzyme is a reverse transcriptase that creates a double-stranded DNA copy from an RNA or DNA template. The second enzyme, an RNA polymerase, makes thousands of copies of the complementary RNA sequence, known as the “RNA amplicon,” from the double-stranded DNA template. Each RNA amplicon serves as a new target for the reverse transcriptase and the process repeats automatically, resulting in an exponential amplification of the original target that can produce over a billion copies of amplicon in less than thirty minutes.

Hybridization Protection Assay (HPA) and Dual Kinetic Assay (DKA) Technologies. With our HPA technology, we have simplified testing, further increased test sensitivity and specificity, and increased convenience. In the HPA process, the acridinium ester, or AE, molecule is protected within the double-stranded helix that is formed when the probe binds to its specific target. Prior to activating the AE molecule, known as “lighting off,” a chemical is added that destroys the AE molecule on any unhybridized probes, leaving the label on the hybridized probes largely unaffected. When the “light off” or detection reagent is added to the specimen, only the label attached to the hybridized probe is left to produce a signal indicating that the target organism’s DNA or RNA is present. All of these steps occur in a single tube and without any wash steps, which were required as part of conventional probe tests. Our DKA technology uses two types of AE molecules that can be differentiated from each other-one that “flashes” and another one that “glows.” By using DKA technology, we have created nucleic acid test, or NAT, assays that can detect two separate targets simultaneously.

Instrumentation

We have developed and continue to develop instrumentation and software designed specifically for use with certain of our assays, including the Aptima family of assays. We also provide technical support and instrument service to maintain these instrument systems in the field. By placing our proprietary instrumentation in laboratories and hospitals, we can establish a platform for future sales of our assays.

Our instrumentation includes the Tigris system, an integrated, fully-automated testing instrument for high-volume laboratories which is approved for use with a number of our Aptima assays, the Panther instrument system, an integrated, fully-automated testing instrument capable of serving both high- and low-volume laboratories, and our semi-automated direct tube sampling, or DTS, instruments which are used to run a number of infectious disease assays. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we also introduced our Tomcat instrument, a fully-automated general purpose instrument designed to improve pre-analytical sample processing by eliminating the inefficient and error-prone activities associated with manually transferring samples from one tube to another. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we received a CE-mark for our new Panther Fusion system and related Fusion assays for flu and respiratory testing, all of which are currently available in Europe. The Panther Fusion system extends the capabilities of the existing Panther system by adding the flexibility of polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, functionality to our existing TMA-based technology, all as a modular in-lab upgrade to the existing Panther system. We also received clearance from the FDA in October 2017 to market and sell the Panther Fusion system and related Fusion assays in the U.S.

Invader Chemistry Platform

Our Invader chemistry platform is a DNA probe-based system for highly sensitive detection of specific nucleic acid sequences. It is an accurate and specific method for detecting single-base pair changes, insertions, deletions, gene copy number, infectious agents, and gene expression. Invader reactions can be performed using genomic DNA, amplified RNA, PCR, or real-time PCR products. Our products and clinical diagnostic offerings based upon our Invader chemistry include our Cervista HPV tests and products to assist in the diagnosis of cardiovascular risk and other diseases.

ThinPrep System

The ThinPrep System is the most widely used method for cervical cancer screening in the U.S. The ThinPrep System consists of any one or more of the following: the ThinPrep 2000 Processor, ThinPrep 5000 Processor, ThinPrep5000 Processor with Autoloader, ThinPrep Imaging System, and related reagents, filters and other supplies, such as the ThinPrep Pap Test and our ThinPrep PreservCyt Solution.

7
The ThinPrep Process. The ThinPrep process begins with the patient’s cervical sample being obtained by the physician using a cervical sampling device that, rather than being smeared on a microscope slide as in a conventional Pap smear, is inserted into a vial filled with our proprietary ThinPrep PreservCyt Solution. This enables most of the patient’s cell samples to be preserved before the cells can be damaged by air drying. The ThinPrep specimen vial is then labeled and sent to a laboratory equipped with a ThinPrep Processor for slide preparation. At the laboratory, the ThinPrep specimen vial is inserted into a ThinPrep Processor, a proprietary sample preparation device, which automates the process of preparing cervical slides for staining and microscopic examination.

In the case of manual screening, the cytotechnologist screens each Pap test slide with a microscope to first determine the adequacy of the slide and then to examine the entire slide to differentiate diseased or abnormal cells from normal cells. With the ThinPrep Imaging System, the screening process has been automated to combine the power of computer imaging technology and human interpretive skills. Prior to human review, the ThinPrep Imaging System rapidly scans, locates and highlights areas of interest for review. By directing the cytotechnologist to areas of interest on a slide, the system may increase a cytology laboratory’s screening productivity and diagnostic accuracy. 

Additional Applications. In addition to serving as a replacement for the conventional Pap smear, the ThinPrep System can also be used for non-gynecological cytology screening applications including fine-needle aspiration specimens (e.g., breast, thyroid, lung or liver), body fluids (e.g., urine, pleural fluid, ascitic fluid or pericardial fluid), respiratory specimens (e.g., sputum or brushing of respiratory tracts) and ancillary testing (e.g., cell blocks, immunocytochemistry or special stains).

Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test

The Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test is a patented single-use disposable test used to determine a woman’s risk of pre-term birth by detecting the presence of a specific protein, fetal fibronectin, in vaginal secretions during pregnancy. The test utilizes a single-use, disposable cassette and is analyzed on our patented instrument, the TLI IQ System.

Breast Health Products

Full Field Digital Mammography System

Our full field digital mammography systems are based on our proprietary DirectRay digital detector, which employs an amorphous selenium photoconductor to directly convert x-ray photons into an electrical signal. No intensifying screens or additional processes are required to capture and convert the x-ray energy, enabling high imaging resolution and contrast sensitivity. Other digital technologies employ an indirect two-step process by first converting x-ray energy into light and then converting the light energy into electrical signals. We believe that digital x-ray imaging technologies that require light conversion may compromise image resolution, lessening detection capability.

Dimensions: Breast Tomosynthesis

Our Dimensions platform includes the Selenia Dimensions gantry and the 3Dimensions gantry incorporating our DirectRay digital detector capable of performing both 2D and tomosynthesis image acquisition and display. When operating in tomosynthesis mode, each system acquires a series of low dose x-ray images taken in a scanning motion at various angles. The images are mathematically processed into a series of small slices, allowing for visualization of the breast in multiple contiguous slices. We believe by revealing the internal structure of the breast, the more subtle architecture of various types of suspicious lesions may be able to be better interpreted, which may ultimately increase cancer detection and reduce unnecessary patient callbacks. Our clinical results for FDA approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of our Genius 3D Mammography is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics. The new 3Dimensions system, which was released for commercial shipment in Europe during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, is designed to be our most advanced 3D mammography system. In the U.S., the 3Dimensions system has been approved by the FDA, although we are awaiting FDA approval of certain hardware and software features.

Synthesized 2D System

Our Synthesized 2D product has two offerings: C-View and Intelligent 2D. These software products provide a 2D image that is mathematically synthesized from the data within a tomosynthesis exam. Our current recommended clinical practice involves what we refer to as a “combo” exam involving a tomosynthesis exam and a conventional digital 2D exam, but performed under the same breast compression. The C-View product allows for the mathematical construction of a 2D image in standard resolution format from the tomosynthesis data, without the need for an actual 2D exposure. Elimination of the 2D exposure reduces the breast compression time and patient dose compared to the current combo exam. The new Intelligent 2D product, which was released in Europe during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, allows for the mathematical construction of a 2D image in high resolution format.

8
 Selenia

The Selenia product family is our original full field digital mammography platform. The Selenia product family includes the Selenia base configuration, the Selenia Value (a lower cost alternative to the Selenia base configuration) and a remanufactured Selenia system, each of which offer customers varying performance capabilities. We discontinued the Selenia system in fiscal 2016.

SecurView Workstation

The images captured by digital mammography systems are typically transmitted electronically for review by a radiologist at a work station. To this end, we developed the SecurViewDX breast imaging softcopy workstation, approved for interpretation of digital mammograms from most vendors as well as images from other diagnostic breast modalities. To complement this product, we also developed the SecurViewRT workstation, a technologist workstation enabling bi-directional exchange of electronic communications between the reviewer and the technologist.

CAD (Computer Aided Detection) Systems

We have developed CAD software tools for our mammography products and visualization tools for magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI. Mammography CAD is used by radiologists as “a second pair of eyes” when reading a woman’s mammogram. Use of this technology provides reviewers with the potential to detect findings that might otherwise be overlooked during the review process, thus potentially increasing cancer detection. We also market an MRI visualization product, which manages the data set from an MRI procedure, designed to improve data workflow for the physician and provide analytical tools to aid in the identification and evaluation of the extent of disease.

Stereotactic Breast Biopsy Systems

We provide clinicians with the flexibility of choosing upright or prone systems for breast biopsy by offering three minimally invasive stereotactic breast biopsy guidance systems: the MultiCare Platinum and Affirm Prone dedicated, prone breast biopsy table, the StereoLoc II upright attachment, and the Affirm upright attachment. The StereoLoc II attachment is used in conjunction with our Selenia systems. The Affirm upright attachment is employed with our Dimensions systems. These breast biopsy systems provide an alternative to open surgical biopsy and can be performed as an outpatient procedure under local anesthesia, allowing shorter recovery times. The Affirm tomosynthesis option provides faster lesion targeting and reduced patient procedure time compared to traditional stereotactic biopsy procedures. The Affirm system is pre-programmed for use with our Brevera, Eviva and ATEC vacuum-assisted breast biopsy devices.

Breast Biopsy Products

We offer a wide range of minimally invasive products for breast biopsy and biopsy site marking. Our breast biopsy portfolio includes three types of tethered vacuum-assisted breast biopsy products, the Brevera, ATEC, and Eviva devices. Each tethered device is powered by a console and utilizes our patented fluid management system. The ATEC device can be used under all standard imaging guidance modalities (stereotactic x-ray, ultrasound, MRI and molecular breast imaging) whereas our Brevera and Eviva devices are used exclusively under stereotactic x-ray guidance. We also offer the Celero and Sertera biopsy devices, both of which are non-tethered (no separate console), spring-loaded, disposable core biopsy devices, which are used exclusively under ultrasound-guidance.

Medical Aesthetics

SculpSure

Our SculpSure laser system is a hyperthermic laser treatment for non-invasive body contouring. Utilizing a 1060 nanometer (nm) diode laser, SculpSure is designed to reduce fat non-invasively by eliminating subcutaneous fat cells. Over time, the body naturally eliminates the fat cells that were disrupted by the SculpSure treatment. The hands-free device features a flexible applicator system to treat multiple anatomical areas of the body. SculpSure is currently approved for treatment on flanks, abdomen and back as well as inner and outer thighs. We recently received FDA 510(k) clearance for use of SculpSure in the submental, or below the chin, area. The SculpSure system requires the use of a Patented Applicator for Contouring, or PAC, to activate each applicator handpiece used in a treatment cycle. 

PicoSure, MedLite and RevLite

Our PicoSure system uses a 755 nm wavelength laser for the removal of tattoos and benign pigmented lesions, as well as the reduction of wrinkles. PicoSure uses short bursts of energy which are measured in picoseconds (trillionths of a second) in contrast to nanosecond technology, used in our MedLite and RevLite products, which delivers pulses in billionths of a 

9
second. The bursts of energy cause the tattoo ink or other damage to break apart into tiny particles which are eliminated by the body. MedLite and RevLite are used for the removal of benign pigmented lesions and multi-colored tattoos. We also offer PicoSure 532 nm wavelength and the PicoSure 1064 nm wavelength to more effectively treat certain colors in tattoos.

MonaLisa Touch

The MonaLisa Touch is a CO2 laser for vaginal rejuvenation for postmenopausal women, breast cancer survivors and women who have undergone hysterectomies and who may suffer from changes to their gynecologic health, including vaginal dryness, soreness and itching as well as painful urination and intercourse. Delivering short CO2 ablative laser pulses to the vaginal wall, the MonaLisa Touch is designed to stimulate and promote the regeneration of collagen fibers and the restoration of hydration and elasticity within the vaginal mucosa. We distribute and market the MonaLisa Touch in North America pursuant to an exclusive distribution agreement with El.En. S.p.A., or El.En. We and El.En. have agreed to market and distribute the MonaLisa Touch under separate distribution agreements with our respective wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain.

Other Products. 

Other product offerings in our Medical Aesthetics business include, among others:

•the Icon aesthetic system for hair removal, wrinkle reduction and scar and stretch mark treatment; 

•the Vectus diode laser for high volume hair removal; 

•the Cellulaze laser device for the treatment of cellulite; 

•the Cynergy product line for the treatment of vascular lesions; 

•the Elite product line for hair removal and treatment of facial and leg veins and pigmentations; and 

•the SmartLipo product line for Laser Body Sculpting for the minimally invasive removal of unwanted fat.

System Components. 

Each of our Medical Aesthetics systems consists of a control console and one or more handpieces. Some of our systems consist of RF-based control consoles where energy is transferred through a handpiece or electrode. Our control consoles are each comprised of a graphical user interface, control system software and high voltage electronics. Depending on the system, the laser or other light source may be within the control console or the handpiece. The graphical user interface allows the practitioner to set the appropriate laser or flashlamp parameters, such as energy and pulse duration, to meet the requirements of a particular application for each particular patient. The control system software communicates the operator’s instructions from the graphical user interface to the system’s components and manages system performance and calibration.

For many applications, practitioners use cooling to protect the skin. The cooling system may be a separate system or integrated into the laser or intense pulsed light system itself. When not integrated, we offer our customers the SmartCool treatment cooling system, which we purchase from a third-party supplier and sell as a private label product under the SmartCool brand. The SmartCool handpiece, which is specially designed for use with our laser systems, interlocks with the laser handpiece.

GYN Surgical Products

NovaSure

The NovaSure endometrial ablation system allows physicians to treat women suffering from abnormal uterine bleeding. The system consists of a disposable device and a controller that delivers radio frequency, or RF, energy to ablate the endometrial lining of the uterus in order to eliminate or reduce the patient’s abnormal bleeding. The NovaSure disposable device is a hand-held, single-use device that incorporates a flexible gold-plated mesh electrode used to deliver the RF energy to the endometrial tissue. The NovaSure RF Controller generates and delivers the RF energy customized for each patient, monitors several critical treatment and safety parameters, and automatically controls the endpoint of the procedure. In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we released a new NovaSure ADVANCED device with slimmer diameter designed to improve patient comfort and physician ease-of-use while maintaining the clinical efficacy of the NovaSure system.

MyoSure

The MyoSure system is designed to provide efficient and effective hysteroscopic removal of fibroids located just below the lining of the uterus as well as uterine polyps and other pathology within the uterus. Removal of fibroids can provide effective relief of heavy menstrual bleeding commonly attributed to such pathology. Unlike other methods of tissue removal, the excavated tissue samples remain intact, which allows them to be tested for abnormalities.

10
The MyoSure system consists of a tissue removal device, control unit, and hysteroscope. The MyoSure tissue removal device is single-use and features simultaneous tissue cutting and removal. The device incorporates a rapidly rotating cutting blade. During the procedure, the tissue removal device is inserted through the MyoSure hysteroscope. This tissue removal device is powered by a control unit, which features a simple user interface and is foot pedal activated.

Skeletal Health Products

Discovery and Horizon X-Ray Bone Densitometers

Bone densitometry is the measurement of bone density to assist in the diagnosis and monitoring of osteoporosis and other metabolic bone diseases that can lead to debilitating bone fractures. Osteoporosis is a disease that is most prevalent in post-menopausal women. Our proprietary Discovery x-ray bone densitometers incorporate dual-energy x-ray technology to precisely assess bone density of the most important fracture sites, the spine and hip. Our Horizon line of x-ray bone densitometers incorporates advanced features and performance characteristics. We offer a range of bone densitometers with various features and options to address the requirements of our diverse customer base. 

Mini C-arm Imaging

Our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging systems provide low intensity, real-time x-ray imaging, with high-resolution images at radiation levels and at a cost below those of conventional x-ray and fluoroscopic equipment. Mini C-arm systems are used primarily by orthopedic surgeons to assist in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient’s extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot and ankle.

Marketing, Sales and Service

We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service forces and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives. In fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenues generated from Grifols, to whom we sold our blood screening business, accounted for 11.7%, 18.8%, and 20.9% of our Diagnostics segment revenue, respectively. In addition, in fiscal 2017, revenues from another customer accounted for 12.8% of our Diagnostics segment revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in any other business segment in fiscal 2017, 2016, or 2015. In fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, international revenues accounted for 22.4%, 21.1%, and 24.0% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for geographical information.

Our U.S. sales force is structured to specifically target the customers in each of our business segments. We maintain distinct teams focused on the Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical, and Skeletal Health markets. Our end customers include clinical laboratories, hospitals, healthcare providers and surgeons in both hospital and office settings, and we target various specialists at healthcare entities who use our products, such as ob-gyns, dermatologists, radiologists and breast surgeons. 

A critical element of our strategy in the U.S. for our Diagnostics, Breast and Skeletal Health and GYN Surgical divisions has been to utilize the results of our clinical trials and expanded FDA labeling to demonstrate safety, efficacy and productivity improvements to our target customers. Our U.S. sales efforts for these divisions also include the use of national account managers focused on obtaining purchasing contracts from large purchasing entities, such as managed care organizations, integrated delivery networks and government healthcare facilities. In addition, in certain regions of the U.S., we use a limited number of independent dealers or distributors to sell and service certain of our products. Internationally, our products in all divisions are marketed and sold through a combination of a direct sales force and a network of distributors.

In our Medical Aesthetics division, we target potential customers through office visits, trade shows and trade journals. We also conduct clinical workshops and webinars featuring recognized expert panelists and opinion leaders to promote existing and new treatment techniques using our products. We believe that these workshops and webinars enhance customer loyalty and provide us with new sales opportunities. We also use direct mail programs to target specific segments of the market that we seek to access, such as members of medical societies and attendees at meetings sponsored by medical societies or associations. We actively maintain a public relations program to promote coverage of our products on daytime television shows in the U.S. and Europe and we are active on popular social media outlets. 

Our service organization is responsible for installing our products and providing warranty and repair services, applications training and biomedical training. In our Medical Aesthetics business, we also provide business and practice development consulting. Products sold by our direct sales force typically carry limited warranties covering parts and labor for twelve months. Products sold through dealers also carry limited warranties that typically last for twelve months and cover only parts and components. We also offer service contracts that generally last one to five years after the original warranty period. We provide both repair services and routine maintenance services under these arrangements, and also offer repair and 

11
maintenance services on a time and materials basis to customers that do not have service contracts. Internationally, we primarily use distributors, sales representatives and third parties to provide maintenance service for our products.

El.En. Commercial Relationship 

We have several distribution agreements with El.En. S.p.A. Under one of these agreements, we purchase from El.En. its SmartLipo MPX system and its proprietary SLT II laser system. The SLT II laser system is an essential component of our SmartLipo Triplex, Cellulaze, and PrecisionTx systems, which also incorporate our proprietary software and delivery systems. We have exclusive worldwide rights under this agreement to sell the SmartLipo MPX system and our products containing the SLT II laser system. Under another distribution agreement with El.En. and under separate distribution agreements with certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain, we purchase from El.En. its MonaLisa Touch laser system.

The prices at which we purchase these laser systems from El.En. are specified in the agreements; however, they may be changed by El.En. at its discretion upon 30 days’ notice. El.En. is required to provide us with training for the products we distribute under these agreements, as well as marketing and other sales support for such products as we and El.En. may agree. We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell and promote our systems containing these laser systems, and we are responsible for obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for such products. We or El.En. may terminate these agreements at any time based upon material uncured breaches by, or the insolvency of, the other party. In addition, El.En. may terminate each agreement if we do not meet annual minimum purchase obligations specified in the agreement and we may terminate if El.En. rejects a purchase order that is in line with our forecast.

Competition

The healthcare industry is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvements in technology. This is particularly the case in the market segments in which we operate. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a broader product portfolio and have greater brand recognition than we do, which may make these competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, physicians and other potential customers. Competitors may develop superior products or products of similar quality for sale at the same or lower prices. Moreover, our products could be rendered obsolete by changes to industry standards or guidelines or advances in technology. We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors.

In the current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures are putting additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes.

We believe that the success of our products depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves and to demonstrate that our products deliver the clinical and operational attributes that are most important and cost-effective to customers. These attributes include, but are not limited to, superiority in efficacy, ease of use, reliability, accuracy, quality and cost. We believe our continued success depends in large part upon our ability to invest in product enhancements and technologies that will help us distinguish ourselves from our competitors.

Diagnostics. Our ThinPrep liquid-based cytology product faces direct competition in the U.S. primarily from Becton, Dickinson and Company, or BD, which manufactures a competitive offering. We also compete with the conventional Pap smear and other alternative methods for detecting cervical cancer and/or its precursors. Internationally, our ThinPrep product competes with a variety of companies and other non-FDA approved tests, since fewer regulatory barriers exist in most international markets as compared to the U.S.

We believe that our Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test is currently the only approved in vitro diagnostic test for predicting the risk of pre-term birth in the U.S. Internationally, our Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test competes with Actim Partus manufactured by Medix Biochemical. However, this product could experience competition from companies that manufacture and market pregnancy-related diagnostic products and services. In addition, healthcare providers use diagnostic techniques such as clinical examination and ultrasound to diagnose the likelihood of pre-term birth and may choose these techniques rather than use the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test.

In the molecular diagnostics market, our products compete with many companies in the U.S. and abroad engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. 

12
Clinical laboratories also may offer testing services that are competitive with our products and may use reagents purchased from us or others to develop their own diagnostic tests.

In the global clinical diagnostics market, we compete with several companies offering alternative technologies to our diagnostic products. For example, in the U.S., our Aptima Combo 2 test competes against BD and Roche Diagnostics Corporation, or Roche, and our Aptima HPV and Cervista HPV tests compete with tests marketed by Qiagen and Roche.

Breast Health. Our mammography and related products and subsystems compete on a worldwide basis with products offered by a number of competitors, including General Electric Company, or GE, Siemens, Koninklijke Philips NV, or Philips, Planmed Oy, or Planmed, Carestream Health, Inc., FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, or Fuji, I.M.S., and Toshiba Corporation. In the U.S., our full field digital mammography systems compete with digital mammography systems from GE, Siemens, Fuji, I.M.S., Philips and Planmed. Our digital mammography systems also compete with Fuji’s and Carestream Health’s Computed Radiography, or CR mammography systems, and other lower-priced alternatives to 2D digital mammography and analog mammography systems. In the U.S., GE, Siemens and Fuji have received FDA approval for their breast tomosynthesis systems, and we believe that other competitors are developing tomosynthesis systems for commercial use in the U.S. Our Dimensions tomosynthesis systems also compete in certain countries outside of the U.S. with tomosynthesis systems developed by GE, Siemens, Fuji, and I.M.S.

The primary competitor for our breast biopsy product line is Devicor Medical Products, Inc., part of Danaher Corporation's Leica Biosystems division. In addition, other competitors include CareFusion, a BD Company, Sanarus Technologies, LLC and Intact Medical Corporation.

Medical Aesthetics. Our Medical Aesthetics products compete against laser and other energy-based products offered by companies such as Cutera, Inc., Syneron Medical Ltd. and ZELTIQ Aesthetics, Inc. (acquired by Allergan plc in April 2017), as well as several smaller specialized companies, such as Alma Lasers Inc. (acquired in May 2013 by Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical) and Lumenis Inc. Some of these competitors have strong financial and human resources and have established reputations, as well as established worldwide distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities. Additional competitors may enter the Medical Aesthetics market, and we are likely to compete with new Medical Aesthetics companies in the future. Our Medical Aesthetics products also compete against non-laser and non-light-based medical products, such as BOTOX and collagen injections, and surgical and non-surgical aesthetic procedures, such as face lifts, chemical peels, abdominoplasty, liposuction, microdermabrasion, sclerotherapy and electrolysis.

GYN Surgical. Our NovaSure system currently faces direct competition from Boston Scientific Corporation, or Boston Scientific, The Cooper Companies, Inc., or CooperSurgical, and Minerva Surgical, Inc., or Minerva, each of which currently markets an FDA approved endometrial ablation device for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. In addition to these devices, we also compete with alternative treatments to our NovaSure system, such as drug therapy, intrauterine devices, hysterectomy, dilation and curettage and rollerball ablation. Because drug therapy is an alternative to our NovaSure procedure, NovaSure’s competitors also include many major pharmaceutical companies that manufacture hormonal drugs for women.

Our MyoSure product competes directly with hysteroscopic loop resection, as well as hysteroscopic tissue removal systems such as Medtronic’s TruClear device and Boston Scientific's Symphion device. The MyoSure product also competes with alternative therapeutic techniques such as hysteroscopic resection with a monopolar or bipolar loop, which is currently the most common technique for removing intrauterine fibroids and polyps.

Skeletal Health. GE is our primary competitor in the bone densitometry market, and we also compete with Orthoscan in the mini-C arm market.

Manufacturing

We purchase many of the components, subassemblies, and raw materials used in our products from numerous suppliers worldwide. For reasons of quality assurance, scarcity and/or cost effectiveness, certain components, subassemblies, and raw materials used in our products are available only from one or a limited number of suppliers. We work closely with our suppliers to develop contingency plans to ensure continuity of quality and reliable supply. We established long-term supply contracts with many of our suppliers and in other instances, we developed in-house capability to offset potential shortages caused by sole source suppliers. Due to the high standards and FDA requirements applicable to manufacturing our products, such as the FDA's Quality System Regulation and Good Manufacturing Practices, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials or components or subassemblies on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-competitive basis may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

13
Our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified NAT diagnostic assays is Roche Diagnostics Corporation. The parent company of Roche Diagnostics Corporation is F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, a direct competitor of our Diagnostics business. Our Diagnostic business has two supply agreements with GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp., an affiliate of GE, for membranes used in connection with our ThinPrep product line and for primers used in the manufacture of Aptima, Fusion, Cervista, Progensa and AccuProbe product lines. GE is a direct competitor with our Breast Health and Skeletal Health businesses. 

We have sole-source third-party contract manufacturers for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines and for our Skeletal Health products. KMC Systems, Inc., or KMC Systems, is the only manufacturer of the Tigris instrument spare parts, Stratec Biomedical AG, or Stratec, is the only manufacturer of the Panther instrument and Flextronics International, LTD, or Flextronics, is the only manufacturer of our Skeletal Health finished goods products. We are dependent on these sole source third-party manufacturers, and this dependence exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. We have no firm long-term volume commitments with either KMC Systems, Stratec or Flextronics. If KMC Systems, Stratec, Flextronics or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with products in sufficient quantities, instrument and equipment shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and may harm our competitive position and reputation. Further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our instruments and Skeletal Health products, if we inaccurately forecast demand we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers' delivery requirements.

In our Medical Aesthetics business, we use Alexandrite rods in the lasers for our Elite+, Apogee+, and PicoSure systems and our sole source supplier is Northrop Grumman SYNOPTICS. We are aware of no alternative supplier of Alexandrite rods meeting our quality standards. We also offer our SmartCool cooling systems for use with our laser aesthetic treatment systems, and our sole source supplier is Zimmer Elektromedizin GmbH. We use diode laser bars from Coherent, Inc. to manufacture our Vectus diode laser, and we use diode laser modules from Dilas Diode Laser Inc. to manufacture our SculpSure laser system. Although alternative suppliers exist for the diode laser bars, they could take months to qualify and implement. We also have El.En. as our sole source supplier for the MonaLisa Touch, as well as the SLT II laser system that we integrate with our own proprietary software and delivery systems for our SmartLipo Triplex, Cellulaze and PrecisionTx systems. We use one third-party to assemble and test many of the components and subassemblies for our Cynergy, Accolade, MedLite, RevLite, and PicoSure product families. We also utilize one third-party to assemble and test Elite+, Apogee+, Icon, Vectus, and the SculpSure finished devices.

We, and our contract manufacturers, manufacture our products at a limited number of different facilities located in the U.S. and throughout the world. In most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. Some of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the U.S., including in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described under the caption “Risk Factors” set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10-K.

From time to time new regulations are enacted that can affect the content and manufacturing of our products. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. In August 2012, the SEC adopted a rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The conflict minerals rule requires companies annually to disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The conflict minerals rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.

Other regulations which affect the content and manufacturing of our products include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances, or REACH, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic 

14
Equipment Directive, or WEEE, enacted in the European Union which require the registration of and regulate the use of certain hazardous substances and chemicals in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. Similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan and China and various states of the U.S. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects.

Backlog

Our backlog as of October 28, 2017 and October 23, 2016 totaled $294.1 million and $345.5 million, respectively. Backlog consists of customer orders for which a delivery schedule within the next twelve months has been specified. Orders included in backlog may be canceled or rescheduled by customers without significant penalty. Backlog as of any particular date should not be relied upon as indicative of our net revenues for any future period.

Research and Development

The markets in which we participate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. Investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. Our research and development efforts are focused on the further development and improvement of our existing products, the design and development of innovative medical technologies and regulatory compliance. 

In addition to product development, our research and development personnel play an active role in the review of product specifications, clinical protocols and FDA submissions, as well as ensuring that certain of our products conform to European health, safety and environmental requirements, or CE-marking. Our research and development expenses were $232.8 million, $232.1 million and $214.9 million in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. Due to the rapid technological changes that characterize the markets we operate in, we believe that trade secrets and other unpatented know-how relied upon in connection with the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products are generally as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, we have obtained patents and will continue to make efforts to obtain patents, when available, in connection with our product development programs. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent.

We own numerous U.S. patents and have applied for numerous additional U.S. patents relating to our technologies. We also own or have applied for corresponding patents in selected foreign countries. These patents relate to various aspects of most of our products. We do not know if current or future patent applications will issue with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. There is a risk that our patent applications will not result in granted patents or that granted patents will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. Third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology that our patents do not cover. In addition, because patent applications in the U.S. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. The rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad which may allow third parties to exploit those technologies. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology.

In addition to the patents we have been issued or we have acquired, we license patents from others on a variety of terms and conditions.

We are engaged in intellectual property litigation as described in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements entitled "Litigation and Related Matters" , and as may also be described herein, and we may be notified in the future of claims that we may be infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third-parties. In connection with any such claims, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide or be required to litigate such claims. A successful claim by a third-party may require us to remove the alleged 

15
infringing product from the market or to design around the patented technology, potentially resulting in less market demand for the product.

Regulatory and Reimbursement

Regulatory

The manufacture, sale, lease and service of medical diagnostic and surgical devices intended for commercial use are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by a variety of regulatory agencies in other countries. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, known as the FD&C Act, manufacturers of medical products and devices must comply with certain regulations governing the design, testing, manufacturing, packaging, servicing and marketing of medical products. Some of our products are also subject to the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act, administered by the FDA, which imposes performance standards and record keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements for devices that emit radiation, such as x-rays. FDA product approvals may be withdrawn or suspended if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. 

The FDA classifies medical devices into three classes based on risk. Regulatory control increases from Class I (lowest risk) to Class III (highest risk). The FDA generally must clear or approve the commercial sale of new medical devices in Classes II and III. Commercial sales of our Class II (except for Class II exempt devices) and III medical devices within the U.S. must be preceded by either a pre-market notification filing pursuant to Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act (Class II) or the granting of a pre-market approval, or PMA (Class III). Our Class I and Class II exempt medical devices must follow Hologic’s internal Quality System processes prior to commercialization. All classes of devices must meet FDA's quality system (QS), establishment registration, medical device listing, labeling and medical device reporting (MDR) regulations.

A 510(k) pre-market notification filing must contain information establishing that the device to be sold is substantially equivalent to a device commercially distributed prior to May 28, 1976 or to a device that has been determined by the FDA to be substantially equivalent. The PMA procedure involves a complex and lengthy testing process that is subject to review by the FDA and may require several years to obtain. We may need to first obtain an investigational device exemption (for significant risk devices), known as an IDE, in order to conduct extensive clinical testing of the device to obtain the necessary clinical data for submission to the FDA. The FDA will approve a PMA only if after evaluating the supporting technical data it finds that the PMA contains sufficient, valid scientific evidence to assure that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s). This approval may be granted with post-approval requirements including inspection of manufacturing facilities and/or additional patient follow-up for an indefinite period of time.

The laboratories that purchase certain of our products, including the ThinPrep System, ThinPrep Imaging System, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, Aptima Combo 2, Aptima HPV and Cervista HPV tests are subject to extensive regulation under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, which requires laboratories to meet specified standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. Adverse interpretations of current CLIA regulations or future changes in CLIA regulations could have an adverse effect on sales of any affected products.

Certain analyte specific reagents, referred to as ASR products, as with other Class I products, may be sold without 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. However, ASR products are subject to significant restrictions. The manufacturer may not make clinical or analytical performance claims for the ASR product, may not promote their use with specific laboratory equipment and may only sell the ASR product to clinical laboratories that are qualified to run high complexity tests under CLIA. Each laboratory must validate the ASR product for use in diagnostic procedures as a laboratory developed test.

We are also subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws which broadly relate to our interactions with healthcare practitioners and other participants in the healthcare system, including, among others, the following:

•anti-kickback and anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the UK’s Bribery Act 2010, or the UK Anti-Bribery Act;

•laws regulating the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act; and

•healthcare reform laws, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to together as PPACA, which include new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals.

In addition, we are subject to numerous federal, state, foreign and local laws relating to safe working conditions, 

16
manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, among others. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future, and complying with these laws may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Sales of medical devices outside of the U.S. are subject to foreign requirements that vary widely from country to country. For example, our ability to market our products outside of the U.S. is contingent upon maintaining our International Standards Organization, or ISO, Quality System certification, complying with European directives and in some cases receiving specific marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. Foreign registration is an ongoing process as we register additional products and/or product modifications.

The time required to obtain approval from a foreign country to market and sell our products may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. In addition, we may be required to meet the FDA’s export requirements or receive FDA export approval for the export of our products to foreign countries.

In 2012, the European Commission proposed two new regulations, one each for medical devices and In-vitro Diagnostics (IVD). The European regulators have now reached consensus on the texts for both new regulations and they became official in May of 2017. There will be a three-year transition period for medical devices and a five-year transition period for IVDs. The adoption of these regulations may impact our international operations through a broadened scope of medical device and IVD oversight and/or regulatory reach. Compliance with the new European Commission regulations may impose additional administrative and financial burdens on us.

Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices and pharmaceuticals are subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business.

For additional information about the regulations to which our business is subject and the impact such regulations may have on our business, see the disclosures under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A below.

Reimbursement

Market acceptance of our medical products in the U.S. and other countries is dependent upon the purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures, and, other than for our Medical Aesthetics products, the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. In the U.S., the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS, establishes coverage policies and payment rates for Medicare beneficiaries. CMS publishes payment rates for physician, hospital, laboratory and ambulatory surgical center services on an annual basis. Under current CMS policies and regulations, varying payment levels have been established for tests and procedures performed using our products. Coverage policies for Medicare patients may vary by regional Medicare contractor in the absence of a national coverage determination and payment rates for procedures will vary based on the geographic price index. Coverage policies and reimbursement rates for Medicaid patients are dependent on each State Medicaid plan and will vary. Coverage policies and reimbursement rates for patients with private insurance is dependent on the individual private payor’s decisions and may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS. Moreover, private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the CMS coverage policies or payment rates. The use of our products outside of the U.S. is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign regulatory authorities and insurance carriers.

Healthcare policy and payment reform proposals and medical cost containment measures are being adopted in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for our products and services from private and governmental third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement and coverage varies by country and can significantly impact acceptance of new products and technologies. Even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval and coverage is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the U.S. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical products or denies coverage for those procedures facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Employees

As of September 30, 2017, we had 6,233 full-time employees, including 1,552 in manufacturing operations, 761 in research and development, 3,205 in marketing, sales and support services, and 715 in general administration. The 60 non-

17
management employees of our Hitec-Imaging subsidiary located in Germany are represented by a union and are subject to collective bargaining agreements. In addition, Hitec-Imaging’s German employees are represented by a works council, a Betriebsrat, with respect to various shop agreements for social matters and working conditions. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Except as described herein, none of our other employees are represented by a union.

Seasonality

Worldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer purchases of our GYN Surgical products have been historically lower in our second fiscal quarter as compared to our other fiscal quarters. Our respiratory infectious disease product line within our Diagnostics segment is also subject to significant seasonal and year-over-year fluctuations. In addition, the summer months, which occur during our fiscal fourth quarter, typically have had lower order rates internationally for most of our products.

Item 1A. Risk Factors