Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, cost-method equity investments, interest rate cap agreements, insurance contracts and related deferred compensation plan liabilities, accounts payable and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding convertible notes and 2022 Senior Notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximate their carrying amount. As of September 30, 2017, we had $447.4 million of principal of convertible notes outstanding, comprised of our 2012 Notes with a principal of $245.4 million, and our 2013 Notes with a principal of $202.0 million. The fair value of our 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes as of September 30, 2017 was approximately $297.3 million and $244.4 million, respectively. The fair value of our 2022 Senior Notes was approximately $1.05 billion. Amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement and Securitization Program of $1.67 billion and $200.0 million aggregate principal, respectively, as of September 30, 2017 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value.

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our Convertible Notes, 2022 Senior Notes and Credit Agreement, as well as under our accounts receivable securitization program. The Convertible Notes and 2022 Senior Notes have fixed interest rates. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement currently bear interest at the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., Libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.50% per annum. Borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization program currently bear interest at Libor plus the applicable margin of 0.7%.

As of September 30, 2017, there was $1.67 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the Credit Agreement, including the Revolver, and $200.0 million aggregate principal outstanding under the securitization program. Since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. A 10% adverse movement (increase in LIBOR rate) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $2.3 million. During fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2017, we entered into multiple interest rate cap agreements to help mitigate the interest rate volatility associated with the variable rate interest on the amounts outstanding. The critical terms of the interest rate caps were designed to mirror the terms of our LIBOR-based borrowings under the Credit Agreement, and therefore the interest rate caps are highly effective at offsetting the cash flows being hedged. We designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability of the Libor-based interest payments on $1.0 billion of principal which ends on December 31, 2017 and December 28, 2018, respectively.

The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

70
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.

We conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the United States as well as manufacturing facilities in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the Euro, U.S. dollar, UK Pound and Renminbi. The majority of our foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the local currency, although certain foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the U.S. dollar based on the nature of their operations or functions. Fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. We have executed forward foreign currency contracts to hedge a portion of results denominated in the Euro, UK Pound, Australian dollar, Japanese Yen and Canadian dollar. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. As a result, we may experience volatility in our Consolidated Statements of Income due to (i) the impact of unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (expense), net on the mark-to-market of outstanding contracts and (ii) realized gains and losses recognized in other income, net, whereas the offsetting economic gains and losses are reported in the line item of the underlying cash flow, for example, revenue. 

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against those currencies. Our expenses, denominated in foreign currencies, are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against those currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. We do not believe a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $2.3 million, $(1.0) million, and $(3.0) million, respectively.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data