Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report and our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this report.

OVERVIEW

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products with an emphasis on women's health. On March 22, 2017, we acquired Cynosure, Inc., a developer, manufacturer and supplier of a broad array of light-based aesthetic and medical treatment systems. The products are used to provide a diverse range of treatment applications such as non-invasive body contouring, hair removal, skin revitalization and scar reduction, as well as the treatment of vascular lesions. The Cynosure business is referred to as Medical Aesthetics and operates as a separate business segment. As a result of our acquisition of Cynosure, we operate in five segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and through January 31, 2017, we offered products that screened donated human blood and plasma. Our primary diagnostics products include our Aptima family of assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther and Tigris), our ThinPrep system, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and, through January 31, 2017, the Procleix blood screening assays. The Aptima family of assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we developed and manufactured the Procleix family of assays, which are used to detect various infectious diseases. These blood screening products were marketed worldwide by our former blood screening collaborator, Grifols, to whom we sold the blood screening business. 

Our Breast Health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, computer-aided detection, or CAD, for mammography and minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, and breast biopsy guidance systems. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images. Our clinical results for FDA approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics.

Our Medical Aesthetics segment offers a portfolio of aesthetic treatment systems, including SculpSure, PicoSure and MonaLisa Touch that enable plastic surgeons, dermatologists and other medical practitioners to perform non-invasive and minimally invasive procedures to remove hair, treat vascular and benign pigmented lesions, remove multi-colored tattoos, revitalize the skin, reduce fat through laser lipolysis, reduce cellulite, clear nails infected by toe fungus, ablate sweat glands and improve gynecologic health. This segment also markets radio frequency, or RF, energy sourced medical devices for precision surgical applications such as facial plastic and general surgery, gynecology, ear, nose, and throat procedures, back and thigh procedures, ophthalmology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, podiatry and proctology. 

Our GYN Surgical products include our NovaSure endometrial ablation system and our MyoSure hysteroscopic tissue removal system. NovaSure endometrial ablation is a one-time procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. MyoSure tissue removal is a minimally invasive procedure that targets and removes fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus. 

Our Skeletal Health segment offers Discovery and Horizon X-ray bone densitometers that assess the bone density of fracture sites; and mini C-arm imaging systems that assist in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

40
Acquisitions and Dispositions 

Cynosure, Inc. 

On March 22, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cynosure pursuant to which we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cynosure. The acquisition was funded through available cash, and the total purchase price was $1.66 billion. 

The preliminary allocation of the purchase price is based on estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of March 22, 2017. The Company has not yet obtained all of the information related to the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities, primarily taxes, to finalize the purchase price allocation.The purchase price has been allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on management’s estimate of their fair values. 

As part of the preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company has determined the identifiable intangible assets are developed technology of $736.0 million, in-process research and development of $107.0 million, trade names of $74.0 million, a distribution agreement of $42.0 million and customer relationships of $35.0 million. The preliminary fair value of the intangible assets has been estimated using the income approach, specifically the excess earning method and relief from royalty method, and the cash flow projections were discounted using rates ranging from 11% to 12%. The cash flows are based on estimates used to price the transaction, and the discount rates applied were benchmarked with reference to the implied rate of return from the transaction model and the weighted average cost of capital. 

The developed technology assets comprise know-how, patents and technologies embedded in Cynosure’s products and relate to currently marketed products. In-process research and development projects relate to in-process projects that have not reached technological feasibility as of the acquisition date and have no alternative future use. The primary basis for determining technological feasibility of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying product or expected commercial release depending on the project. We recorded $107.0 million of in-process research and development assets related to three projects, which were expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 and 2019 with a preliminary cost to complete of approximately $18.0 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we obtained regulatory approval for two projects with an aggregate fair value of $61.0 million and these assets were reclassified to developed technology The remaining project is expected to be completed during fiscal 2019 with an estimated cost to complete of approximately $4.0 million. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot assure that any of our product development efforts will be successful, completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. All of the in-process research and development assets were valued using the multiple-period excess earnings method approach using discount rates ranging from 14% to 22%. 

The excess of the purchase price over the preliminary estimated fair value of the tangible net assets and intangible assets acquired of $683.5 million was recorded to goodwill. The factors contributing to the recognition of the amount of goodwill are based on several strategic and synergistic benefits that are expected to be realized from the Cynosure acquisition. These benefits include the expectation that the Company’s entry into the aesthetics market will significantly broaden our offering in women’s health. The Company is expected to benefit from a broader global presence, synergistic utilization of Hologic’s direct sales force, primarily its GYN Surgical sales force, with certain Cynosure products and entry into an adjacent, cash-pay segment. For additional information, please refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Medicor Medical Supply 

On April 7, 2017, we completed the acquisition of MMS Medicor Medical Supplies GmbH, or Medicor, for a purchase price of approximately $19.0 million, which includes a working capital adjustment of $2.0 million that was paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and a holdback of $1.9 million that is payable two years from the date of acquisition. Medicor was a long-standing distributor of our Breast and Skeletal Health products in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Based on the preliminary valuation, we have allocated $5.4 million of the purchase price to the preliminary value of intangible assets and $9.5 million to goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary as we are continuing to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities. 

Blood Screening Business 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our blood screening business to Grifols for a sales price of $1.85 billion in cash, subject to adjustment based on the closing amount of inventory. The transaction closed on January 31, 2017 and we received $1.865 billion. The sales price is subject to adjustment based on a finalization of inventory provided to Grifols. The sale resulted in a gain of $899.7 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. As a result of this disposition and proceeds received, we recorded a tax obligation of $649.5 million, which was paid in fiscal 2017. Upon the closing of the transaction, our existing collaboration agreement with Grifols terminated, and a new collaboration 

41
agreement was executed as part of this transaction for us to provide certain research and development services to Grifols. In addition, we have agreed to provide transition services to Grifols over the next two to three years depending on the nature of the respective service, including the manufacture of inventory, and we are in effect serving as a contract manufacturer of assays for Grifols for a two to three year period. We have also agreed to sell Panther instrumentation and certain supplies to Grifols as part of a long term supply agreement. Revenue, gross profit and operating income of the disposed business presented below represents the financial impact of the business as it was operated prior to the date of disposition. The operating expenses include only those that were incurred directly by and were retained by the disposed business and are now incurred by Grifols. As noted above, we are performing a number of transition services and the financial impact from these services is not included in the amounts presented below for the disposed business. For the disposed blood screening business, in fiscal 2017, revenue was $96.5 million, gross profit was $64.8 million, and operating income was $45.8 million. For the disposed blood screening business, in fiscal 2016, revenue was $235.4 million, gross profit was $163.3 million, and operating income was $99.1 million. Following the closing of this disposition, we no longer operate our blood screening business, except to the limited extent we have agreed to support Grifols. Under the long term supply agreement, transition services agreement to manufacture assays and new collaboration agreement, subsequent to disposing the blood screening business, we recognized revenues of $44.0 million in fiscal 2017. 

42
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in millions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2016 

Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generated a 6.7% increase in product revenues in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to our acquisition of Cynosure on March 22, 2017 and an increase in GYN Surgical sales. Cynosure's results (after the date of the acquisition) are reported in our new Medical Aesthetics segment. Cynosure is the sole business in this segment. We had decreases in our Diagnostics business as a result of the sale of our blood screening business effective January 31, 2017. We also experienced decreases in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health segments. Our Diagnostics revenues, excluding blood screening, increased in the current year. The increase in overall product revenues was reduced partially by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies, most notably the Euro and UK Pound. The current year included an extra week as fiscal 2017 is a 53-week year.

Diagnostics product revenues decreased 3.3% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the decrease in blood screening revenues of $94.6 million in the current year as a result of the divestiture of the business during the second quarter of FY17. In connection with the divestiture agreement, we have committed to providing Grifols manufacturing support through the defined transition services period and long term access to Panther instrumentation and certain supplies. As such, we will continue to generate a level of revenues, but much lower than historical trends. For the current year, product revenue under the new long term supply agreement and transition services agreement to manufacture assays for Grifols was $37.1 million. Excluding the divestiture of the blood screening business, diagnostic product revenues grew driven by increases in Molecular Diagnostics of $57.5 million in the current year, respectively, while Cytology and Perinatal revenues were slightly lower by $2.4 million year over year primarily due to lower Perinatal sales volume.

The increase in Molecular Diagnostics product revenues was primarily due to our increased installed base of Panther instruments, which is driving higher volumes of assay testing, in particular our Aptima family of assays, an increase in the number of our virology products, as we have recently received regulatory approval for certain of these products, and an additional week in the current year compared to prior year. These increases were partially offset by a slight decline in average selling prices, a reduction in Cervista HPV revenues as our larger customers transition to our Panther system, a reduction in Cystic Fibrosis revenues as we discontinued the product at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. 

Breast Health product revenues decreased 1.6% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower sales volume of our 3D Dimensions systems and related components in the U.S., partially offset by an increase in international sales volume and 3D upgrades. The increase in international sales was partially due to our acquisition of Medicor in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition, the lower revenue reflected a decline in 2D systems primarily due to discontinuing the Selenia system in fiscal 2016. These decreases were partially offset by the sales volume increase in our recently launched Affirm Prone table, an increase in C-view sales and higher volumes of our Eviva and ATEC products, partially offset by slightly lower average selling prices for ATEC. 

Our Medical Aesthetics business was formed in fiscal 2017 by the acquisition of Cynosure effective March 22, 2017. Accordingly, we did not have any Medical Aesthetics revenues in the prior year period. 

44
GYN Surgical product revenues increased 8.7% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to increases in MyoSure system sales of $33.0 million as MyoSure continues to gain strong market acceptance with new devices being released, such as the MyoSure REACH, partially offset by a slight decrease in average selling prices primarily due to product mix. NovaSure revenues were lower by $2.9 million in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to slight decrease in average selling prices. Our GYN Surgical revenues were also adversely affected by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. 

 Skeletal Health product revenues decreased 3.5% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to a decrease in our mini C-arm sales in the U.S. due to competitive pressures, which was partially offset by increases in Horizon osteoporosis assessment product revenues primarily attributable to higher sales volume on a worldwide basis.

In fiscal 2017, 76.7% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 10.3% in Europe, 8.5% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.5% in other international markets. In fiscal 2016, 77.8% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 10.6% in Europe, 8.3% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.3% in other international markets. The slight decrease in the percentage of U.S. revenues was primarily due to lower sales volumes of 3D Dimensions systems and related components in the U.S. and higher revenues in other international markets as a result of our Cynosure acquisition.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues increased 14.8% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher service contract conversion and renewal rates, an additional week in the current year, higher spare parts sales, and the Cynosure acquisition, which contributed $29.2 million in the current year.

Cost of Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin decreased to 53.6% in fiscal 2017 compared to 55.9% in fiscal 2016.

Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 34.7% in the current year, compared to 31.8% in the prior year. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in the current year were higher in Diagnostics and Skeletal Health, relatively consistent in GYN Surgical, and decreased in Breast Health compared to the prior year, resulting in the decrease in overall product margins. In addition, the cost of product revenues was higher due the inclusion of Cynosure results partially due to the impact of the step-up in inventory from purchase accounting, which was $39.3 million in the current year, and the Cynosure products have a lower gross margin than our legacy products. 

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the divestiture of the higher margin blood screening business that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The products that we supply to Grifols under the new supply and collaboration agreements are at significantly lower gross margins than we earned in the disposed business, and we expect this to continue. The cost as a percentage of revenue also increased due to a shift in sales to lower margin international molecular diagnostic products, a slight decline in Aptima average selling prices, lower Perinatal sales and the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, partially offset by the increase in Aptima assay volumes.

45
Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher software revenues for our C-View product and 3D upgrades, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales, as well as manufacturing efficiencies, increase in average sales prices for breast biopsy systems due to increased volume in our Affirm Prone table, and an increase in Eviva and ATEC volumes. These decreases in product costs as a percentage of revenue were partially offset by the volume impact of the decreases in 3D Dimensions systems and related component revenue. 

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue were relatively consistent in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016.

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower volumes and an increase in obsolescence charges. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The decrease in amortization expense as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the divestiture of the blood screening business resulting in lower amortization expense of $17.9 million, and the $6.2 million acceleration of the discontinued Cystic Fibrosis developed technology asset in the prior year. The decrease was also driven, to a lesser extent, from lower amortization expense related to the Cytyc acquisition intangibles, which are being amortized based on the pattern of economic benefits. These decreases were partially offset by amortization expense of $33.5 million from intangible assets acquired from Cynosure. 

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 50.3% in fiscal 2017 compared to 51.7% in fiscal 2016. Slight decrease in gross margin is related to lower margin Cynosure service business offset by the strength of the Breast Health service margins. The Breast Health business continues to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period leveraging our service infrastructure. 

Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 0.3% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the inclusion of Cynosure research and development expenses of $15.3 million and increased consulting expenses, partially offset by the divestiture of the blood screening business, lower project spend, and a reduction in headcount primarily in Diagnostics. In addition, for fiscal 2017 there was an additional week of expenses. At any point in time, 

46
we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period. 

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 20.1% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the inclusion of Cynosure, which contributed $81.0 million. Excluding the impact of Cynosure, expenses related to Hologic’s legacy business increased in the current year compared to the prior year primarily due to increased headcount in GYN Surgical and Breast Health, increased training, meeting and consulting expenses and higher spend internationally as we invest to expand our presence in targeted geographic markets, partially offset by lower commissions, trade shows and marketing initiatives. In addition, there was an extra week of spend in the current year. 

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 28.4% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the inclusion of Cynosure, which contributed $30.4 million, which includes retention and integration related expenses including legal and consulting professional fees. Excluding the impact of Cynosure, expenses related to Hologic’s legacy business increased in the current year compared to the prior year primarily due to acquisition and divestiture transaction fees of $23.2 million, charges of $35.6 million for non-income tax matters, increased compensation and benefits partially due to higher stock compensation, increased information systems infrastructure and project costs, integration and consolidation charges, and an additional week of expenses. These increases were partially offset by $12.4 million refund received in fiscal 2017 related to amended medical device excise tax filings, overall lower legal fees as the prior year period included a $6.0 million charge to settle a legal fee dispute, lower consulting and tax fees related to organizational structure changes and improvements and decrease in facilities costs. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, distributor relationships and business licenses related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense decreased 30.3% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower amortization expense from intangible assets related to the blood screening business of $34.5 million that was disposed of during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. This decrease was partially offset by intangible asset amortization expense of $10.1 million as a result of the Cynosure acquisition and an additional week of expense in fiscal 2017. 

Gain on Sale of Business. In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we completed the sale of our blood screening business to Grifols and recorded a gain of $899.7 million. 

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. In fiscal 2015, we decided to shut down our Bedford, Massachusetts facility and transfer production of our Skeletal Health products to a third-party contract manufacturer and other activities to our Marlborough, Massachusetts and Danbury, Connecticut facilities. We also implemented additional organizational changes to our international operations in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2017, in connection with our acquisition of Cynosure, we have and will implement certain organizational changes, and we also eliminated certain research and development positions in Breast Health and manufacturing positions primarily in our Diagnostics division. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the related severance and benefit charges are recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or up-front for contractual benefits, and other charges are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2017 and 2016, we recorded aggregate charges of $13.3 million and $10.5 million, respectively, from these actions, primarily for severance and benefits and to a lesser extent facility closure costs. The current year charges are for severance benefits primarily related to the termination of Cynosure executives and employees and lease obligation charges for a vacated section of our Bedford facility. For additional information, please refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense in fiscal 2016 and 2017 consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our Convertible Notes, 2022 Senior Notes, and amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement, and Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. Interest expense in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was relatively consistent but had offsetting factors. While we lowered outstanding debt balances as a result of scheduled principal payments, and Convertible Note repurchases in fiscal 2017, this effect on interest was offset by an additional week in the current year, higher expense from interest rate cap agreements and an increase in the LIBOR rate compared to the prior year period. 

47
Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On various dates during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2017, we entered into privately negotiated repurchase transactions and extinguished $117.9 million and $168.0 million principal amount of our 2012 and 2013 Notes, respectively, for an aggregate payment of $375.1 million, which includes a premium conversion resulting from our stock price on the date of the transactions being in excess of the conversion prices. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $0.9 million and $2.3 million on the 2012 and 2013 Notes, respectively, related to the difference between the fair value of their respective liability components and carrying values at the repurchase dates. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in capital, a component of stockholders' equity.

On various dates during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2016, we entered into privately negotiated repurchase transactions and extinguished $137.6 million and $136.6 million principal amount of our 2010 and 2012 Notes, respectively, for an aggregate payment of $392.8 million, which includes a premium conversion resulting from our stock price on the date of the transactions being in excess of the conversion prices. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $4.6 million and $0.7 million on the 2010 Notes and 2012 Notes, respectively, related to the difference between the fair value of their respective liability components and carrying values at the repurchase dates. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in capital, a component of stockholders' equity.

Other Income (Expense), net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2017, this account primarily consisted of a gain of $4.9 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan, $2.3 million in net foreign currency exchange gains partially due to hedging activities and $5.6 million of net realized gains on the sale of investments. 

In fiscal 2016, this account was primarily comprised of a $25.1 million realized gain on the sale of a marketable security, and a gain of $3.3 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan. These gains were partially offset by an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $1.1 million on a marketable security and net foreign currency exchange losses of $1.0 million. 

Provision for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 was 38.6% compared to 20.3% in fiscal 2016. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2017 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to non-deductible goodwill related to the sale of the Blood Screening business, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances for capital losses utilized against the capital gain generated on the sale of the Blood Screening business, earnings in jurisdictions subject to lower tax rates, the domestic production activities deduction benefit, the release of uncertain tax positions due to statutes of limitations expirations and audit settlements, stock compensation benefits, and federal and state tax credits.

 For fiscal 2016, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory tax rate primarily due to earnings in jurisdictions subject to lower tax rates, the domestic production activities deduction benefit, and a change in the valuation allowance related to the sale of a marketable security with a higher tax than book basis. 

48
Segment Results of Operations

We report our business as five segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.

Diagnostics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above. The primary driver of the reduction in revenues was the divestiture of the blood screening business in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. 

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the gain on the disposition of the blood screening business of $899.7 million partially offset by a decrease in gross profit primarily due to the blood screening divestiture. Excluding the impact of the gain, operating income increased $28.7 million in the current year compared to the prior year. Gross margin was 47.8% in the current year compared with 49.5% in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to lower revenues as a result of the disposition of the higher-margin blood screening business and the lower margins generated under the new supply and collaboration arrangement, the slight decline in Aptima average selling prices, a shift in sales to lower margin international molecular diagnostic products and the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, partially offset by the increase in Aptima assay volumes and lower amortization expense primarily attributable to the divestiture of the blood screening business. 

Exclusive of the impact of the gain on the sale of the blood screening business, operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower amortization expense primarily as a result of the blood screening divestiture, lower research and development expenses related to a reduction in project spending as well as the divestiture of blood screening, and the refund received related to amended medical device excise tax filings, $5.5 million of which related to Diagnostics. In addition, the current year expenses were lower primarily due to a reduction of legal fees and charges as the prior year period included a $6.0 million settlement of a legal fee dispute, and the prior year period included $2.8 million for the medical device excise tax. These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by an increase in non-income taxes of $3.7 million recorded in fiscal 2017 and increased compensation from higher sales and marketing headcount. 

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due primarily due to an increase of $37.2 million in service revenue, partially offset by a $11.7 million decrease in product revenue discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenue partially offset by an increase in operating expenses in the current year. The overall gross margin increased to 60.9% in the current year compared to 59.9% in the prior year primarily due to the increase in service revenue and software product sales, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales. The gross margin increases 

49
were partially offset by the volume impact of the decreases in 3D Dimensions systems and related component revenue in the US. 

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. We experienced an increase in non-income tax charges of $5.8 million recorded in fiscal 2017, an increase in compensation and commissions from increased head count, higher marketing expenditures internationally, increased legal fees, and operating expenses from Medicor. These increases were partially offset by lower marketing initiatives and program spend on Genius 3D, lower meeting and related expenses, lower restructuring costs, and a $4.5 million refund received in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 relating to this business segment from amending the Company’s medical device excise tax filings. In addition, the prior year period included medical device excise taxes of $2.5 million. 

Medical Aesthetics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Medical Aesthetics revenues increased in fiscal 2017 related to the acquisition of Cynosure on March 22, 2017. 

The operating loss of $115.9 million in the fiscal 2017 was primarily due to amortization of intangible assets of $43.7 million, the step-up to fair value of inventory sold of $39.3 million, and restructuring, retention and integration expenses, including legal and professional consulting fees and accelerated depreciation expense, aggregating $25.7 million partially offset by gross profit. Fiscal 2017 also includes acquisition transaction fees of $18.8 million.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to increase in operating expense related to charges recorded for non-income tax matters of $26.1 million. Excluding the impact of the non-income tax matter, operating income in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 would have increased due to an increase in gross profit as a result of higher revenues. Gross margin increased to 63.6% in fiscal 2017 period from 62.0% in fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher revenues with improved manufacturing efficiencies, a decrease in amortization expense, and the inclusion in the prior year period of a write-off of inventory that would not be utilized.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2017 primarily due to charges recorded for non-income tax matters of $26.1 million, increases in compensation from additional headcount, higher commissions due to increased sales, increased spend on marketing initiatives and increased product development spend, partially offset by lower amortization expenses.

50
Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above. 

Operating income decreased in fiscal 2017 compared to the prior year primarily due to a decrease in gross profit from lower revenues and increased obsolescence charges. Gross margin rate was 42.2% in fiscal 2017 compared to 46.3% in fiscal 2016. This business also had higher operating expenses in fiscal 2017 primarily related to the facility closure costs incurred for the Bedford facility of $4.8 million.

51
Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2016 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2015 

Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generated an increase in product revenues in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015. The growth was across our three primary business segments on both a domestic and worldwide basis, while Skeletal Health experienced a decline domestically and internationally. Product revenues increased 4.8% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015, as reported growth was partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies, most notably the Euro, Australian dollar and UK Pound.

Diagnostics product revenues increased 1.7% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to increases in Molecular Diagnostics of $28.6 million and Cytology & PeriNatal of $8.1 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $16.2 million in our Blood Screening business.

The increase in Molecular Diagnostics products, and in particular our Aptima family of assays, was primarily due to our increased installed base of Panther instruments, which is driving higher volumes of assay testing. These increases were partially offset by a slight decline in average selling prices, a reduction in Cervista HPV revenues as our larger customers transition to our Panther system, a reduction in Cystic Fibrosis revenues as we discontinued the product at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and a slight negative foreign currency exchange impact from the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Overall, we experienced revenue growth both domestically and internationally in our Molecular Diagnostics business. The increase in our Cytology & PeriNatal products was primarily related to increases in instrument sales and Perinatal volumes partially offset by a decrease in our ThinPrep products, where ThinPrep volumes increased slightly domestically and increased more modestly internationally, but international sales were negatively impacted by the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, this business experienced an increase in domestic revenues but a decline in international revenues. Blood Screening revenues decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to a reduction in volumes related to the agreement between Grifols, our blood screening partner, and the Japanese Red Cross and lower instrument and ancillary volumes as well as the trend of lower blood donations in the U.S. The revenue decrease was partially offset by fluctuations in Grifols' domestic inventory levels, including increased fulfillment of the West Nile Virus assay. As a result, this business experienced an increase in domestic revenues but a decline in international revenues.

Breast Health product revenues increased 5.1% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015. Our digital mammography systems and related products revenue increased $56.8 million in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher sales volume of our 3D Dimensions systems on a worldwide basis, principally driven by domestic sales. This resulted in our domestic 3D Dimension systems sales, which have higher average selling prices than international sales, increasing as a percentage of our total 3D Dimension system sales. In addition, we also had higher software sales primarily driven by our C-View product. These increases were partially offset by negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies and decreases in the sales volume of our 2D Selenia product. In addition, we had lower sales of our interventional breast solutions products of $4.7 million and had no sales from our MRI breast coils product line in fiscal 2016, which was fully disposed during fiscal 2015 and contributed $8.4 million in fiscal 2015. Overall, we experienced growth domestically in this business segment but had a decline internationally in our primary product lines.

GYN Surgical product revenues increased 17.2% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to increases in MyoSure system sales of $38.8 million and NovaSure system sales of $19.1 million compared to fiscal 2015 as volumes increased both domestically and internationally for each product. We believe the increase in domestic NovaSure volumes is partially attributable to a competitor's recent withdrawal from the market. The MyoSure system continued to gain strong market acceptance as unit sales increased globally. These increases were partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies.

52
Skeletal Health product revenues decreased 6.0% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to decreases in the sales volume of our older Discovery products, lower sales of our mini C-arm product and the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in our Horizon osteoporosis assessment product sales volume.

In fiscal 2016, 77.8% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 10.6% in Europe, 8.3% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.3% in other international markets. In fiscal 2015, 74.6% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 12.4% in Europe, 9.3% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.7% in other international markets. The increase in the percentage of U.S. revenues was primarily due to higher total product revenue in the U.S. in our Surgical, Breast Health and Molecular Diagnostic product lines. The impact of the U.S. revenue increases, lower overall international revenues, and the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar, primarily against the Euro, Australian dollar and the UK Pound, resulted in a reduction in the European and Asia-Pacific revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues increased 4.4% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher service contract conversion and renewal rates and higher installation and training revenues related to increased sales of our 3D Dimensions systems. In addition, other revenue in our Diagnostics segment increased in fiscal 2016 primarily due to $9 million of payments received under an agreement to license certain technology. 

Cost of Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin increased to 55.9% in fiscal 2016 compared to 53.5% in fiscal 2015.

Cost of Product Revenues. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in fiscal 2016 decreased in our Breast Health and GYN Surgical business segments and increased in Diagnostics and Skeletal Health compared to fiscal 2015, resulting in the overall improvement in gross margins.

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to unfavorable absorption variances, a mix shift in international sales to a higher percentage of lower margin molecular diagnostic products, inventory related charges for discontinuing the Cystic Fibrosis product, and the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. These increases were partially offset by an increase in product revenue related to the increase in Aptima assay sales and related volumes resulting in favorable manufacturing variances, and lower production costs at our manufacturing facilities as we improve our operational efficiency and renegotiate pricing with certain of our vendors. In addition, we generated an increase in domestic sales, which have higher average selling prices, while international sales declined in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015. 

Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the favorable product mix shift to our higher margin 3D Dimensions system. Our 3D Dimensions systems have higher average sales prices than our 2D systems. In addition, we had higher software sales primarily due to our C-View product, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales, and we experienced favorable manufacturing variances. Further, we 

53
generated an increase in domestic sales, which have higher average selling prices, while international sales declined in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 resulting in an improved gross margin. We also had lower sales of our interventional breast solutions disposables and no sales from our MRI breast coils product line, which was fully disposed during fiscal 2015. Both of these product lines have lower gross margins than our digital mammography systems. 

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in sales volumes for both our MyoSure and NovaSure products resulting in favorable manufacturing variances, partially offset by product mix shift to our lower margin MyoSure products. In addition, the prior fiscal year included a $4.0 million charge to write-off certain inventory that would not be utilized. 

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to an overall decrease in revenues, partially offset by favorable manufacturing variances as we built additional inventory in anticipation of outsourcing the manufacturing of a majority of the division's products to a third party.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. The decrease in amortization expense in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was primarily due to lower amortization expense from intangible assets from the Cytyc Corporation acquisition, which are being amortized based on the pattern of economic use, and the full amortization of assets acquired in our Suros acquisition. These decreases were partially offset due to the acceleration of amortization of the Cystic Fibrosis developed technology asset of $6.2 million in fiscal 2016 as a result of discontinuing this product.

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 51.7% in fiscal 2016 compared to 50.0% in fiscal 2015. Within our Breast Health segment, the increase in gross margin is related to higher service contract conversion and renewal rates and higher installation and training revenues related to our increased sales of 3D Dimensions systems. In addition, we had an increase in other revenue in our Diagnostics segment primarily due to $9 million of royalty payments from licensing certain technology, which had no corresponding service costs.

Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 8.0% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher compensation, primarily in our Breast Health segment from additional headcount. There was also an increase in new product development spend in Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health for prototype 

54
materials and consulting. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 14.4% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher compensation from an increase in headcount in Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Breast Health, increased commissions as a result of higher sales, an increase in spending on a number of marketing initiatives primarily in our Breast Health and Diagnostics businesses, higher medical education spend in GYN Surgical and higher travel, trade show and meeting expenses. 

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 2.4% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to a $6.0 million charge for settling a legal fee dispute in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, and to a lesser extent, due to higher salary and compensation from increased headcount, increased consulting and legal expenses for a number of corporate initiatives including organizational structure changes and finance operational improvements, an increase in information systems infrastructure and project costs, and an increase in stock-based compensation from implementing a retirement plan provision in our equity compensation plan in the fourth quarter. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the medical device excise tax of $16.9 million as a result of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 ("PATH"), which went into effect December 15, 2015, and provides for a two-year moratorium on the 2.3% excise tax imposed on the sale of medical devices in the United States on or after January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, and lower tax fees. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, and business licenses from our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense decreased 18.6% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to lower amortization expense from intangible assets from the Gen-Probe Incorporated acquisition and the Cytyc acquisition, which are being amortized based on the pattern of economic use.

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges.  In fiscal 2014, we implemented cost containment measures that primarily resulted in headcount reductions and also started the process of reorganizing our senior management team and international structure, which led to additional headcount actions in fiscal 2015. In addition, in fiscal 2015, we decided to shut down our Bedford, Massachusetts facility and transfer production of our Skeletal Health products to a third-party contract manufacturer and other activities to our Marlborough, Massachusetts and Danbury, Connecticut facilities. We also implemented additional organizational changes to our international operations throughout fiscal 2016 which resulted in additional charges. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the related severance and benefit charges are recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or up-front for contractual benefits, and other charges are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2016 and 2015, we recorded aggregate charges of $10.5 million and $28.5 million, respectively, from these actions, primarily for severance and benefits and to a lesser extent facility closure costs. Included in the fiscal 2015 charges was a $9.6 million charge to write-off the cumulative translation adjustment related to the divestiture of our MRI breast coils product line. This subsidiary was deemed to be substantially liquidated in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 as operations fully ceased. For additional information, please refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our Convertible Notes, 2022 Senior Notes, 6.25% Senior Notes due 2020, and amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement, our prior senior secured credit facility with Goldman Sachs Bank USA, in its capacity as administrative and collateral agent, referred to as the Prior Credit Agreement and our Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 was primarily due to lower outstanding balances as a result of scheduled principal payments, a term loan prepayment and extinguishments in fiscal 2015 and, to a lesser extent, Convertible Note repurchases in fiscal 2016 of $274.2 million principal amount, and lower interest rates in fiscal 2016 as a result of debt refinancings in fiscal 2015.

55
Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On various dates during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2016, we entered into privately negotiated repurchase transactions and extinguished $137.6 million and $136.6 million principal amount of our 2010 and 2012 Notes, respectively, for an aggregate payment of $392.8 million, which includes a premium conversion resulting from our stock price on the date of the transactions being in excess of the conversion prices. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $4.6 million and $0.7 million on the 2010 and 2012 Notes, respectively, related to the difference between the fair value of their respective liability components and carrying values at the repurchase dates. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in capital, a component of stockholders' equity.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Senior Notes. We used the net proceeds of the 2022 Senior Notes, plus available cash to discharge the outstanding 6.25% Senior Notes due 2020 at an aggregate redemption price of $1.03 billion, reflecting a redemption premium payment of $31.25 million. As a result of this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $22.3 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the redemption premium and debt issuance costs for extinguished lenders.

Also in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, on various dates, we entered into privately negotiated transactions and repurchased $300 million principal amount of our 2010 Notes for a total payment of $543.7 million, which included the conversion premium resulting from our stock price on the date of transaction being in excess of the conversion price. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $15.5 million related to the difference between the fair value of the liability component of the 2010 Notes and their respective carrying value at the redemption date. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in-capital within stockholders' equity.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into a new Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The initial net proceeds under the new Credit Agreement were used to refinance our obligations under our Prior Credit Agreement with Goldman Sachs Bank USA. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $18.2 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs under the existing facility.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we voluntarily pre-paid $300.0 million of our Term Loan B facility under the Prior Credit Agreement. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.7 million to write-off the pro-rata amount of unamortized debt discount and deferred issuance costs related to this voluntary pre-payment.

Other Income (Expense), net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentage not meaningful

In fiscal 2016, this account was primarily comprised of a $25.1 million realized gain on the sale of a marketable security, and a gain of $3.3 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan. These gains were partially offset by an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $1.1 million on a marketable security and net foreign currency exchange losses of $1.0 million.

In fiscal 2015, this account was primarily comprised of an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $7.8 million on a marketable security, net foreign currency exchange losses of $2.9 million, and $1.0 million of losses on cash surrender value of life insurance contracts and mutual funds related to our deferred compensation plan.

56
Provision for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 was 20.3% compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2015. For fiscal 2016, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory tax rate primarily due to earnings in jurisdictions subject to lower tax rates, the domestic production activities deduction benefit, and a change in the valuation allowance related to the sale of a marketable security with a higher tax than book basis. For fiscal 2015, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the domestic production activities deduction benefit.

Segment Results of Operations

Diagnostics. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to increased gross profit and lower operating expenses. Gross profit increased primarily due to increased Aptima and Cytology & Perinatal product sales, partially offset by lower blood screening revenues, as discussed above, and an increase in other revenue primarily due to $9.0 million in payments received in fiscal 2016 under an agreement to license certain technology for which there were no corresponding costs. In addition, we had favorable manufacturing variances and lower production costs at our manufacturing facilities as we improve our operational effectiveness and renegotiate pricing with certain of our vendors. Partially offsetting these improvements were unfavorable absorption variances, a mix shift in international sales to lower margin molecular diagnostic products, inventory related charges for discontinuing the Cystic Fibrosis product, the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, and the acceleration of amortization of the Cystic Fibrosis developed technology asset of $6.2 million. Overall, the gross margin improved slightly to 49.5% in fiscal 2016 from 49.3% in fiscal 2015.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to lower amortization expense of $16.9 million, lower medical device excise taxes of $7.5 million, and lower restructuring charges. These decreases were partially offset by higher sales and marketing expenses related to increased compensation for additional headcount and commissions, increased marketing initiatives and trade shows and an increase in legal fees related to the settlement of a fee dispute for $6.0 million.

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the $34.6 million increase in product revenues discussed above and a $14.7 million increase in service revenues.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross profit increased primarily due 

57
to the increase in 3D Dimensions sales, on both a unit basis and as a percentage of total digital mammography systems, compared to our 2D systems, and an increase in software related sales, each of which have higher gross margins. We also generated an increase in domestic sales, which have higher average selling prices, while international sales declined in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 resulting in an improved gross margin. In addition, this business experienced favorable manufacturing variances. These increases were partially offset by the negative foreign currency impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, overall gross margin increased to 59.9% in fiscal 2016 compared to 56.4% in fiscal 2015.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in compensation and commissions from increased headcount and improved operating results, higher marketing expenditures for a number of marketing programs, and increased trade show and meeting expenses, higher clinical trial and prototype materials expenses, and increased information systems infrastructure costs. These expense increases were partially offset by lower medical device excise taxes of $5.8 million, lower intangible asset amortization expense of $2.5 million, and lower restructuring expenses in which the prior year included a $9.6 million charge to write-off the cumulative translation adjustment related to the divestiture of our MRI breast coils product line.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in revenues and gross profit, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin increased to 62.0% in fiscal 2016 from 57.3% in fiscal 2015 primarily due to increased sales volumes for both our MyoSure and NovaSure products resulting in favorable manufacturing variances, partially offset by product mix shift to our lower margin MyoSure products. In addition, intangible asset amortization expense was lower in the current year. Gross margin was also higher in the current year as the prior year included a $4.0 million charge to write-off inventory that would not be utilized. 

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in compensation from additional headcount, higher commissions due to increased sales, increased spend on marketing initiatives, trade shows and medical education, increased research and development expenses and higher legal expenses. 

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues of $4.0 million discussed above. 

Operating income decreased in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher operating expenses for compensation and additional investment in research and development projects, while gross profit increased slightly as a result of higher sales of our higher margin Horizon product and favorable manufacturing variances as we built up inventory in advance of transitioning production of these products to a third-party manufacturer. 

58
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 30, 2017, we had a negative $(386.9) million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $540.6 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $7.8 million during fiscal 2017 principally due to the purchase of Cynosure, tax payments on the gain on the sale of the blood screening business, payments to extinguish certain of our Convertible Notes and repurchase of our common stock, partially offset by cash generated through investing activities as a result of the sale of our blood screening business, sales of marketable securities, cash flows from our core operating activities and borrowings under our revolving line of credit. 

In fiscal 2017, our operating activities provided us with $8.3 million of cash, which included tax payments of $649.5 million related to the gain on the sale of our blood screening business. The cash received from the sale of the business is separately classified within cash from investing activities. Cash flow from operations, excluding this tax payment, was $657.8 million. Adjustments to net income of $755.5 million included non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $449.2 million, stock-based compensation expense of $68.2 million and non-cash interest expense of $49.4 million related to our outstanding debt and $39.7 million related to the step-up in fair value of acquired inventory. These adjustments to net income were partially offset by a gain on the sale of our blood screening business of $899.7 million, the cash from which was included in investing activities, and a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $357.2 million, primarily from the amortization of intangible assets and the reversal of deferred taxes related to blood screening intangible assets that were sold. Cash provided by operations included a net cash outflow of $103.2 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by an increase in accounts receivable of $41.5 million primarily due to a higher portion of revenues occurring in the last month of fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 resulting in a slight increase in days sales outstanding, a decrease in accrued expenses of $17.8 million related to the timing of accruals for income and other taxes, and lower accrued compensation, a decrease in accounts payable of $10.6 million primarily due to the timing of payments, a decrease in deferred revenue of $10.6 million primarily due to recognizing amounts previously deferred for not meeting the revenue recognition criteria, and an increase in inventory of $11.6 million primarily due to building up inventory to meet anticipated demand and launch of newer products. 

In fiscal 2017, we generated $285.8 million of cash from investing activities, primarily related to $1.865 billion in proceeds from the sale of our blood screening business and $87.1 million in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities. These cash inflows were partially offset by $1.558 billion in net cash used to acquire Cynosure and Medicor and $107.6 million for capital expenditures, which consisted of the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements and purchases of manufacturing equipment and computer hardware.

In fiscal 2017, our financing activities used cash of $309.2 million, primarily for payments of $396.2 million to extinguish and redeem certain of our Convertible Notes, repurchases of common stock of $200.1 million, payments related to our long term debt under our Credit Agreement of $84.4 million and payments of $19.7 million for employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds of $345.0 million borrowed under our revolving line of credit and proceeds of $49.0 million from our equity compensation plans.

Debt

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $3.3 billion at September 30, 2017, which was comprised of amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement of $1.66 billion (principal $1.67 billion), our 2022 Senior Notes of $1.0 billion and our convertible notes of $484.5 million (principal $447.4 million), which included accretion of principal at 4.0% per annum on the 2013 Notes, and amounts outstanding under the accounts receivable securitization program of $200.0 million.

Credit Agreement

As of September 30, 2017, the credit facilities under the Credit Agreement consisted of: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•A secured revolving credit facility under which the Borrowers (as defined below) could borrow up to $1 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a final maturity date of May 29, 2020 or the Revolver, of which $345.0 million was outstanding at September 30, 2017.

Borrowings were secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of the assets of our U.S. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. For example, borrowings under the Credit Agreement were not secured by those accounts receivable that we transfer to the special purpose entity under our Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. As of September 30, 2017, the interest rate under the Term Loan and Revolver was 2.73% on the outstanding amounts, which was reflective of the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., Libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.50% per annum as set forth in the Credit 

59
Agreement. The applicable margin was subject to specified changes depending on the total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. 

We were required to make scheduled principal payments under the Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $18.75 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on September 25, 2015 to $37.5 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on September 28, 2018. The remaining balance of the Term Loan was due at maturity. Any amounts outstanding under the Revolver were due at maturity. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, we were required to make certain mandatory prepayments from specified excess cash flows from operations (to the extent our net senior secured leverage ratio exceeded a certain ratio) and from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights) (“Mandatory Prepayments”). Subject to certain limitations, we could voluntarily prepay any of the credit facilities under the Credit Agreement without premium or penalty. 

The Credit Agreement contained affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability and that of the Subsidiary Guarantors, subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of our businesses. The Credit Agreement also contained customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the company.

The Credit Agreement contained total net leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio financial covenants measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter and an excess cash flow prepayment requirement measured as of the end of each fiscal year. As of September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these covenants, and no Mandatory Prepayments were required as of September 30, 2017.

Senior Notes

On July 2, 2015, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Senior Notes. The 2022 Senior Notes are our general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). The 2022 Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2022 and bear interest at the rate of 5.250% per year, payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2016.

 We may redeem the 2022 Senior Notes at any time prior to July 15, 2018 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the indenture. We may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before July 15, 2018, at a redemption price equal to 105.250% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2022 Senior Notes on or after: July 15, 2018 through July 14, 2019 at 102.625% of par; July 15, 2019 through July 14, 2020 at 101.313% of par; and July 15, 2020 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if we undergo a change of control, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2022 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

Convertible Notes

At September 30, 2017, our convertible notes, in the aggregate original principal amount of $447.4 million, are recorded at $484.5 million, which includes accretion of principal at 4.0% per annum on the 2013 Notes and is net of the unamortized debt discount attributed to the embedded conversion feature of the convertible notes and deferred issuance costs. At September 30, 2017, these notes consisted of:

•$245.4 million original principal amount of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2042 issued in March 2012 (2012 Notes); and

•$202.0 million original principal amount of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2043 issued in February 2013 (2013 Notes).

The 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes are collectively referred to herein as the convertible notes. Interest on the 2013 Notes is currently being accreted to principal, from their date of issuance, at a rate of 4.00% per year until December 15, 2017, and 2.00% per year thereafter. The 2012 Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the original principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears until their first put date and thereafter accrete principal at the rate of 2.00% per year. In addition, under certain circumstances contingent interest may be payable under the convertible notes after each of their first put date. 

60
The 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes have conversion prices of approximately $31.175 and $38.59 of original principal amount, respectively, and are subject in each case to adjustment. Holders of the 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes may convert their convertible notes at the applicable conversion price under certain circumstances, including without limitation (x) if the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter and (y) if the applicable series of convertible notes has been called for redemption. It is our current intent and policy to settle any conversion of the convertible notes as if we had elected to make either a net share settlement or all cash election, such that upon conversion, we intend to pay the holders in cash for the principal amount of the convertible notes and, if applicable shares of our common stock or cash to satisfy the premium based on a calculated daily conversion value.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2012 Notes on each of March 1, 2018, 2022, 2027 and 2032, and on March 2, 2037, or upon a fundamental change as provided in the indenture for the 2012 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2013 Notes on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027, 2032 and 2037, or upon a fundamental change as provided in the indenture for the 2013 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

We may redeem any of the 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes beginning March 6, 2018, and December 15, 2017, respectively. As discussed above, holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their notes prior to redemption. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes (i.e., in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock) at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date. On November 14, 2017, we announced that we had elected to redeem, on December 15, 2017, all of the outstanding 2013 Notes (those 2013 Notes not surrendered to us for repurchase on December 15, 2017 or validly submitted for conversion prior to December 15, 2017) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the accreted principal amount of the 2013 Notes to be redeemed. We also announced on November 14, 2017 that as provided in the indenture for the 2013 Notes, we had made an irrevocable election to settle any conversion of the 2013 Notes validly submitted on or after November 14, 2017 in cash. 

We have recorded deferred tax liabilities related to our convertible notes original issuance discount, representing the spread between the stated cash coupon rate and the higher interest rate that is deductible for tax purposes based on the type of security. When our convertible notes are extinguished, we are required to recapture the original issuance discount previously deducted for tax purposes. The tax recapture, however, decreases as the fair market value of the convertible notes and the amount paid on settlement increases. 

Accounts Receivable Securitization Program

On April 25, 2016, we entered into a one-year $200.0 million accounts receivable securitization program (the "Securitization Program") with several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the terms of the Securitization Program, we and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries sell our customer receivables to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, which is wholly-owned by us. In addition, we also contributed a portion of our customer receivables to the special purpose entity in connection with its establishment. We retain servicing responsibility. The special purpose entity, as borrower, and we, as servicer, have entered into a Credit and Security Agreement with several lenders pursuant to which the special purpose entity may borrow from the lenders up to $200.0 million, with the loans secured by the receivables. The amount that the special purpose entity may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying receivables that are present in the special purpose entity at such point in time. The entire amount available of $200.0 million is outstanding at September 30, 2017. Borrowings outstanding under the Securitization Program bear interest at LIBOR plus the applicable margin of 0.7% and are included as a component of current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of net receivables in our consolidated balance sheet. As of September 30, 2017, the interest rate under the Securitization Program was 1.24% on the outstanding amounts. We and the special purpose entity are operated and maintained as separate legal entities. The assets of the special purpose entity secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The special purpose entity was not a guarantor under our Credit Agreement and is not a guarantor under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or of our 2022 and 2025 Senior Notes.

Effective April 21, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment to extend the Securitization Program an additional year to April 20, 2018. The amendment allows the Company to continue to borrow up to $200.0 million and due to structural changes to the terms, the borrowing base has fewer limitations.

The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, and an event of default upon a change of control. 

61
In addition, it contains financial covenants consistent with that of the Credit Agreement. As of September 30, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the Credit and Security Agreement covenants.

Subsequent Events

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

On October 3, 2017, we and certain of our domestic subsidiaries entered into an Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and certain other lenders from time to time party thereto. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement amends and restates our Credit Agreement. The proceeds under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement of $1.8 billion were used, among other things, to pay off the Term Loan and Revolver outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of the assets of our U.S. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions.

The credit facilities (the “Amended and Restated Credit Facilities”) under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement consist of:

•A $1.5 billion secured term loan to the Company (the "Amended Term Loan") with a stated maturity date of October 3, 2022 (which date may spring to April 15, 2022 upon the occurrence of certain conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement); and 

•A secured revolving credit facility (the "Amended Revolver") under which the Borrowers may borrow up to $1.5 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a stated maturity date of October 3, 2022 (which date may spring to April 15, 2022 upon the occurrence of certain conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement). 

At the closing, we borrowed $345 million under the Amended Revolver, which was subsequently repaid during October 2017.

Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Facilities bear interest, at the Company's option and in each case plus an applicable margin as follows:

•Amended Term Loan: the Base Rate (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), at the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), or at the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement),

•Amended Revolver: if funded in U.S. dollars,the Base Rate, Eurocurrency Rate, or LIBOR Daily Floating Rate, and, if funded in an alternative currency, the Eurocurrency Rate; and it requested under the swing line sublimit, the Base Rate.

The applicable margin to the Base Rate, Eurocurrency Rate, or LIBOR Daily Floating Rate is subject to specified changers depending on the total net leverage ratio as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The borrowings of the Amended Term Loan initially bear interest at an annual rate equal to the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., the LIBOR rate) plus an Applicable Rate equal to 1.50%. The borrowings of the Amended Revolver initially bear interest at a rate equal to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate plus an Applicable Rate equal to 1.50%. We are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee calculated on the undrawn committed amount available under the Amended Revolver.

We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the Amended Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $9.375 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 29, 2017 to $37.5 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 23, 2021. The remaining balance of the Amended Term Loan and any amounts outstanding under the Amended Revolver are due at maturity. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, we are required to make certain mandatory prepayments from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights). These mandatory prepayments are required to be applied by us, first, to the Amended Term Loan, second, to any outstanding amount under any Swing Line Loans (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), third, to the Amended Revolver, fourth to prepay any outstanding reimbursement obligations with respect to Letters of Credit (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) and fifth, to cash collateralize any Letters of Credit. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily prepay any of the Amended and Restated Credit Facilities without premium or penalty.

The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting the ability of us, subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur 

62
additional indebtedness and grant additional liens on our assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of their businesses. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement requires the Borrowers to maintain certain financial ratios. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the Company.

2025 Senior Notes

On October 10, 2017, we completed a private placement of $350 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.375% Senior Notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes”) at an offering price of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes. The 2025 Notes mature on October 15, 2025 and bear interest at the rate of 4.375% per year, payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2018. The 2025 Notes were not registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and were offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The 2025 Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain domestic subsidiaries of Hologic.

We may redeem the 2025 Notes at any time prior to October 15, 2020 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture. We may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before October 15, 2020, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2025 Notes on or after: October 15, 2020 through October 14, 2021 at 102.188% of par; October 15, 2021 through October 14, 2022 at 101.094% of par; and October 15, 2022 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if we undergo a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2025 Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

We intend to use the net proceeds of the 2025 Notes, plus available cash, which includes amounts available under the Revolver, to redeem or repurchase all of our outstanding convertible notes, including exercise of our cash settlement election upon any conversion of those notes. Our election to redeem or repurchase the convertible notes, and/or make an all cash settlement election on conversion of the convertible notes will be in our sole discretion, based upon existing market and business conditions at the time of such determination. 

Stock Repurchase Program

On June 21, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500.0 million of the Company's outstanding common stock over the next five years. There were no repurchases of common stock made under this authorization during fiscal 2016. During fiscal 2017, the Company repurchased 5.3 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $200.1 million. 

63
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included within long-term debt obligations are the Term Loan, Revolver, 2022 Senior Notes, borrowings under the Securitization Program, the 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes. The 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes can first be put to us on March 1, 2018 ($245.4 million original principal). The 2013 Notes can first be put to us on December 15, 2017 ($202.0 million original principal) and are convertible by their respective holders because we have elected to redeem such notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as further discussed above. We have assumed for purposes of the above table that the principal amounts for each issuance will be paid off when they first can be put to us. The 2013 Notes also have principal accretion of 4.00% annually, which is included in the principal amount in the less than 1 year column above. The amounts in the table do not include deferred tax liabilities for the recapture of the original issuance discount.

(2)As a result of the Cynosure acquisition, we have capital leases for the buildings at its primary U.S. operating facility and certain equipment and vehicles.

(3)The financing leases represent two leases for an office building and a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

(4)Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum purchase commitments for inventory and instruments and, to a lesser extent, other operating expense commitments.

(5)Pension obligations do not include our obligation under our deferred compensation plans of $43.2 million at September 30, 2017, which is recorded as a current liability. Deferred compensation plan benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $88.3 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. 

Future Liquidity Considerations

We intend to use the net proceeds from our 2025 Notes, our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and available cash and borrowings under our Amended Revolver to redeem or repurchase all of our outstanding convertible notes. We also expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions and alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that cash flow from operations and the cash available under our Revolver and permitted accounts receivable securitization program will provide us with sufficient funds in order to redeem or repurchase all of our outstanding convertible notes and fund our expected normal operations, and debt payments, including interest over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes and related deferred tax liabilities. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, 2022 Senior Notes, 2025 Senior Notes, convertible notes and accounts receivable securitization program. These capital requirements could be 

64
substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.

Legal Contingencies

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Inventory

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment and diagnostic test kits, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, and reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product expiration or end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, excess or obsolete, we would be required to record impairment charges within cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results.

Accounts Receivable Reserves

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including discussions with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that 

65
we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.

Business Combinations

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are generally probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with an risk adjusted rate. Quarterly until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. 

We generally use the income approach in which cash flow projections on an after-tax basis are discounted using a risk adjusted rate to determine the estimated fair value of certain identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, in-process research and development projects, customer relationships, and trade names.

With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost or income approach as the primary methods in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Intangible Assets

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. In the event an indicator of impairment is identified, we perform an analysis comparing the undiscounted cash flows the asset group is expected to generate over its remaining economic life to its carrying value. The undiscounted cash flows are based on management's assumptions on the asset group's use in the future. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing fair value, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally determine fair value based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life has changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.

Goodwill

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.

66
In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value. The second step requires us to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation as of the measurement date and estimate the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets is determined as described above and is subject to significant judgment.

We conducted our fiscal 2017 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of July 1, 2017 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of our reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of each of our reporting units been lower by 10%, all of our reporting units, except our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit, would still have passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. This reporting unit had a fair value as of the measurement date that exceeded its carrying value by 2% with goodwill of $683.5 million. We acquired Cynosure, which is the sole business in Medical Aesthetics, on March 22, 2017. In connection with our annual strategic planning process and annual goodwill impairment test, we have lowered our estimated financial projections for this business as a result of its current operating performance being below expectations, which we primarily attribute to the significant turnover in the U.S. sales force in 2017. In the event, future operating performance is below our forecasted projections, or there are negative changes to long-term growth rates or if discount rates increase, these factors could result in a decline in the fair value of the reporting unit and we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge.

At September 30, 2017, the Company believes that its other reporting units, with goodwill aggregating $2.49 billion, were not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on the current forecasts.

Since the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of a reporting unit.

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue from the sale of our products, primarily medical imaging systems, aesthetic treatment systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on its medical imaging systems.

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements for capital equipment sales, primarily in its Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics and Skeletal Health reporting segments, are multiple-element arrangements, including services, such as installation, training and support and maintenance, and multiple products. Based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we believe that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as the delivered products have value to our customers on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, revenue for services not yet performed at the time of product delivery are deferred and recognized as such services are performed. The relative selling price of any undelivered products is also deferred at the time of shipment and recognized as revenue when these products are delivered. There is no customer right of return in the Company’s sales agreements for its capital equipment.

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training, and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Service and other revenue also includes royalties which are recognized in the period the payments are due to the Company.

67
For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, we record revenue as separate units of accounting if the delivered items have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, and if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered items, the delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially within the Company’s control. Some of our products have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. We determined that except for our computer-aided detection (“CAD”) products and C-View and Intelligent 2D products, the software element in its other products is not within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition.We determined that given the significance of the software component’s functionality to its CAD, C-View and Intelligent 2D components, which are sold by its Breast Health segment, these products are within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. We evaluated the appropriate revenue recognition treatment of it hardware products, including its Dimensions digital mammography systems, which have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality (i.e., it is a tangible product), and determined they are not within the scope of ASC 985-605.

We are required to allocate revenue to its multiple element arrangements based on the relative fair value of each element’s selling price. We typically determine the selling price of our products based on our best estimate of selling prices (“ESP”) and services based on vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (“VSOE”). We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold on a stand-alone basis. In determining VSOE, our policy requires a substantial majority of selling prices for a product or service to be within a reasonably narrow range. We also consider the class of customer, method of distribution, and the geographies into which its products and services are sold when determining VSOE. If VSOE cannot be established, which may occur in instances when a product or service has not been sold separately, stand-alone sales are too infrequent, or product pricing is not within a relatively narrow range, we will generally establish the selling price using ESP to allocate arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would typically transact a stand-alone sale of the product or service. ESP is determined by considering a number of factors including our pricing policies, internal costs and gross margin objectives, method of distribution, information gathered from experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends, competitive landscape and geographies.

For those arrangements accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on their relative VSOE of fair value. If VSOE does not exist for a delivered element, the residual method is applied in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their VSOE with the remaining consideration recognized as revenue for the delivered elements. For multiple-element software arrangements where VSOE of fair value of Post-Contract Customer Support (“PCS”) has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.

Within our Diagnostics segment, we manufactured blood screening products according to demand schedules provided by its former collaboration partner, Grifols, S.A. (“Grifols”). In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we sold its assets in the blood screening business to Grifols. Upon the closing of the transaction, our existing collaboration agreement with Grifols terminated, and a new collaboration agreement was executed as part of this transaction for us to provide certain research and development services to Grifols. In addition, we agreed to provide transition services to Grifols over the next two to three years depending on the nature of the respective service, including the manufacture of inventory, and we are in effect serving as a contract manufacturer of assays to Grifols for a two to three year period. We also agreed to sell Panther instrumentation and certain supplies to Grifols as part of a long term supply agreement. As such, we will generate a level of revenues, but much lower than historical trends. Prior to divestiture, our agreement provided that we would share a portion of Grifols’s revenue from screening blood donations. Upon shipment to Grifols, we recognized product revenue at an agreed upon fixed transfer price, which was not refundable, and recorded the related cost of products sold. Based on the terms of our prior collaboration agreement with Grifols, our ultimate share of the net revenue from sales to the end user in excess of the transfer price was not known until it was reported to us by Grifols. On a monthly basis, Grifols reported net revenue generated during the prior month and remitted an additional corresponding net payment to us, which was recorded as revenue at that time. This payment combined with the transfer price revenues previously recognized represented our ultimate share of net revenue under the prior agreement.

While the majority of our instruments are placed at customer sites, in certain instances we sell instruments to our clinical diagnostics customers and records sales of these instruments upon shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the arrangement. 

Within our Diagnostics business, and to a lesser extent, its GYN Surgical business, we provide our instrumentation (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and the Panther and Tigris systems) and certain other hardware to customers without requiring them to purchase the equipment or enter into a lease. We install the instrumentation or equipment at the customer’s site and recover the cost of providing the instrumentation or equipment in the amount we charge for its 

68
diagnostic tests, assays and other disposables. Customers enter into a customer usage agreement and typically commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable products at a stated price over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as tests, assays and other disposable products are shipped or delivered, depending on the customer's arrangement.

Stock-Based Compensation

We recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with the granting of stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units issued to our employees. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718, Stock Compensation, requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, we have determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and have applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 7% as of September 30, 2017 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated periodically and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.

We granted performance stock units and market-based stock units to members of our senior management team. Each recipient of a performance stock unit is eligible to receive between zero and 200% of the target number of shares of our common stock at the end of three years provided our defined Return on Invested Capital, or ROIC, metrics are achieved. Each recipient of a market based award is eligible to receive between zero and 200% of the target number of shares of our common stock at the end of three years based upon achieving a certain total shareholder return relative to a defined peer group. Since both awards cliff vest, we recognize compensation expense ratably over the required service period, and specifically for performance stock units based on an estimate of the probability that the measurement criteria will be achieved for a targeted number of shares. Our estimate of the number of shares that are probable of vesting is based on our estimate of ROIC over the respective time periods using our internal forecasts and projections. If there is a change in the estimate of the number of shares that are probable of vesting, we will cumulatively adjust compensation expense in the period that the change in estimate is made.

We recognized $68.2 million, $65.4 million and $59.3 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of September 30, 2017, there was $21.0 million and $54.6 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and stock units, respectively, that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years and 1.8 years, respectively.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between our assets and liabilities financial reporting and taxes bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.

We have recognized $964.5 million in net deferred tax liabilities at September 30, 2017 and $973.3 million at September 24, 2016. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and debt. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and the character of such income in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, 

69
in the event we determine that we could realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made.

At September 30, 2017, we had $90.3 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $70.3 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate. At September 24, 2016, we had $163.6 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $76.9 million, if recognized, would have reduced the Company's effective tax rate. The gross unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $73.3 million from fiscal 2016, of which $64 million was a balance sheet reclassification resulting from the effective settlement in fiscal 2017 of uncertain tax positions related to the convertible debt exchange that occurred in fiscal 2013 and $6.2 million was the result of the effective settlement in fiscal 2017 of other unrecognized tax benefits. In the next twelve months it is reasonably possible that the Company will reduce its gross unrecognized tax benefits by up to $2.0 million due to expiring statutes of limitations.

In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk