Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we analyze revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

2007 Results  

 •    Safety – We operated a safer railroad in 2007, improving safety for our employees, customers, and the public. The employee injury incident rate per 200,000 man-hours declined to its lowest level. A continued focus on derailment prevention in 2007 resulted in a 14% reduction in incidents, with associated costs declining 13%. In the area of public safety, we closed 482 grade crossings to reduce our exposure incidents, and we installed additional video cameras in our road locomotives. As a result of this installation work, we now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position of over 85% of our road trains. These video cameras allow us to better analyze grade crossing incidents, thereby increasing safety for our employees and the public. The number of grade crossing incidents decreased 9% during the year, despite the combination of increasing highway traffic and urban expansion. Also, through extensive trespass reduction programs, we were able to reduce trespasser incidents by 21%. All of these improvements are the result of comprehensive efforts to enhance employee training, increase public education, make capital investments, and take proactive steps to reduce safety risks.  

 •    Financial Performance – In 2007, we generated record operating income of $3.4 billion despite lower volume. Yield increases, network management initiatives, and improved productivity drove the 17% increase in operating income. Our operating ratio was 79.3% for the year, a 2.2 point improvement compared to 2006. Net income of $1.86 billion also exceeded our previous milestone, translating into earnings of $6.91 per diluted share.  

 •    Commodity Revenue – Our commodity revenue grew 4% year-over-year to $15.5 billion, the highest level in our history. We achieved record revenue levels in five of our six commodity groups, driven primarily by better pricing and fuel surcharges. Since 2004, we have repriced approximately 75% of our business. Volume decreased 1% in 2007 due to softening markets for some of our commodities and adverse weather conditions.  

 •    Network Operations – In 2007, we significantly improved the fluidity and efficiency of our transportation network. Continued focus on increasing velocity, eliminating work events, improving asset utilization, and expanding capacity were key drivers of our operational improvement. We reduced average terminal dwell time by 8%, improved car utilization by 7%, and increased average train speed by 2% with ongoing enhancements to our Unified Plan (an ongoing program that streamlines segments of our transportation plan) and implementation of initiatives to make train processing at our terminals more efficient. We completed implementation of Customer Inventory Management System, an operational productivity initiative that complements the Unified Plan by reducing the number of rail cars in our terminals without adding capacity. We also expanded capacity and continued to use industrial engineering techniques to further improve network fluidity, ease capacity constraints, and improve asset utilization. Our customer satisfaction improved during 2007, an indication that efforts to improve network operations translated into better customer service.  

20  

Table of Contents 

 •    Fuel Prices – Crude oil prices increased at a steady rate in 2007, rising from a low of $56.58 per barrel in January to close at nearly $96.00 per barrel at the end of December. Our 2007 average fuel price increased by 9% and added $242 million of operating expenses compared to 2006. Our fuel surcharge programs are designed to help offset the impact of higher fuel prices. In addition, our fuel conservation efforts allowed us to improve our consumption rate by 2%. Locomotive simulator training, operating practices, and technology all contributed to this improvement, saving approximately 21 million gallons of fuel in 2007.  

 •    Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled a record $3.3 billion, yielding free cash flow of $487 million in 2007. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities, less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.  

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe free cash flow is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2008 Outlook  

 •    Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the public. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, and training for, and engaging with our employees. We plan to implement Total Safety Culture (TSC) throughout our operations. TSC, an employee-focused initiative that has helped improve safety, is a process designed to establish, maintain, and promote safety among co-workers. With respect to public safety, we will continue our efforts to maintain, upgrade, and close crossings, install video cameras on locomotives, and educate the public about crossing safety through various internal and industry programs, along with other activities.  

 •    Commodity Revenue – Despite uncertainty regarding the U.S. economy, we expect record revenue in 2008 based on current economic indicators, forecasted demand, improved customer service, and additional opportunities to reprice certain of our business. Yield increases and fuel surcharges will be the primary drivers of commodity revenue growth in 2008. We expect that overall volume will fall within a range of 1% higher to 1% lower than 2007, with continued softness in some market sectors.  

 •    Transportation Plan – In 2008, we will continue to evaluate traffic flows and network logistic patterns to identify additional opportunities to simplify operations and improve network efficiency and asset utilization. We plan to maintain adequate manpower and locomotives, improve productivity using industrial engineering techniques, and improve our operating margins.  

 •    Fuel Prices – Fuel prices should remain volatile, with crude oil prices and conversion and regional spreads fluctuating throughout the year. On average, we expect fuel prices to increase 15% to 20% above the average price in 2007. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue to seek recovery from our customers through our fuel surcharge programs and expand our fuel conservation efforts.  

21  

Table of Contents 

 •    Capital Plan – In 2008, we expect to make capital investments of approximately $3.1 billion (which may be revised if revenue, tax, or business conditions require changing, or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on, these investments). Major investment categories include $1.6 billion to maintain and improve track infrastructure; $840 million to increase network and terminal capacity; $490 million to upgrade our locomotive and freight car fleet, including the acquisition of 175 high-horsepower locomotives and new covered hoppers; and $170 million primarily to upgrade information technology systems, including the testing of positive train control, and other capital projects. We expect to fund our 2008 cash capital investments through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand at December 31, 2007. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we designed to enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) maintain and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

 •    Financial Expectations – We are cautious about the economic environment; however, we anticipate revenue growth and continued network improvement in 2008, which should produce financial results that exceed 2007. We expect to generate earnings of $7.75 to $8.25 per diluted share and improve our operating ratio and return on invested capital.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Operating Revenue  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating revenue includes commodity revenue and other revenue. The primary drivers of commodity revenue are volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). ARC varies with changes in price, commodity mix, and fuel surcharges. Other revenue consists primarily of revenue earned by our subsidiaries, revenue from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenue, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage.  

We recognize commodity revenue on a percentage-of-completion basis as freight moves from origin to destination. We allocate revenue between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them. We recognize other revenue as service is performed or contractual obligations are met. We provide incentives to our customers for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as a reduction to revenue based on the actual or projected future shipments.  

Revenue from five of our six commodity groups increased during 2007, while revenue generated from industrial products shipments declined. ARC increased 6% during 2007 driven by core price improvement. Lower shipments of industrial and agricultural products drove volume down 1% in 2007, more than offsetting an increase in chemical shipments. Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated $1.5 billion in commodity revenue in 2007. Fuel surcharge revenue is not comparable to prior periods due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs for certain traffic. As previously disclosed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the STB issued a decision limiting the manner in which U.S. railroads can calculate fuel surcharges on traffic regulated by the   

22  

Table of Contents 

 STB. Effective April 26, 2007, we implemented new fuel surcharge programs covering this regulated traffic, which represents approximately 19% of our current revenue base. These new programs use mileage (as opposed to percent of revenue) as the basis for calculating fuel surcharges, and they use the On-Highway Diesel Price index – published by the Energy Information Administration – for purposes of determining fuel costs. The new programs affect fuel surcharges assessed for certain shipments of agricultural, chemical, and industrial products, and, to a lesser extent, coal. In addition, we reset the effective base fuel price at which our new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs take effect, resulting in a higher starting point of $2.30 per gallon versus $1.35 per gallon.  

All six commodity groups produced double-digit revenue growth in 2006, including over 20% growth of revenue from agricultural commodities. Price increases, fuel surcharges, and index-based contract escalators, which are formulas in our shipping contracts that correlate price adjustments to certain economic indices, all contributed to higher ARC. Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated an additional $656 million in commodity revenue compared to 2005, contributing 5% to commodity revenue growth. Volume increased 3% during the year, led by solid growth of intermodal and energy shipments, which were partially offset by lower shipments of industrial products and chemicals. Lower volume in 2005 due to the January West Coast storm, SPRB Joint Line disruptions, Hurricane Rita and the Kansas washouts also contributed to this year-over-year growth.  

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in commodity revenue, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

23  

Table of Contents 

Agricultural – Price increases were the primary drivers of agricultural commodity revenue in 2007, partially offset by a decline in volume levels. Shipments of whole grains used in feed declined as barge operators captured more shipments destined for export from the Gulf Coast due to both favorable barge rates and improved navigation conditions on the Mississippi River. Conversely, wheat and food grain shipments improved as a strong wheat crop generated record shipments to the Gulf Coast for export. Shipments of ethanol, a grain product used as an alternative fuel and fuel additive, and its co-products (primarily livestock feed) also increased substantially. 

Price increases, volume growth, and fuel surcharges increased agricultural commodity revenue in 2006 versus 2005. Whole grains increased as strong gulf exports and higher freight charges for barge traffic shifted feed grain shipments to rails. Shipments of ethanol     

and its co-products (primarily livestock feed) also experienced strong growth, reflecting continued demand in this growing industry. Conversely, wheat shipments declined due to extremely low crop production levels in 2006 primarily due to drought conditions in wheat producing states. Price and fuel surcharge increases improved ARC in 2006.  

Automotive – Price increases drove the growth in automotive revenue, partially offset by lower finished vehicle shipments. A decline in vehicle production levels primarily drove the volume decline. Conversely, automotive parts shipments grew due to increased volumes from domestic manufacturers, new business acquired in the middle of 2006, and our new intermodal train service between Mexico and Michigan. 

Price increases, volume growth, and fuel surcharges increased automotive commodity revenue in 2006 over 2005. Shipments of finished vehicles grew as higher manufacturer inventories at the end of 2005 translated into record volume growth in 2006. Shipments remained relatively strong through the second quarter due to the production ramp-up of new models at plants served by us. Automotive parts shipments also grew due to conversion of traffic from trucks, new business growth, and production increases at several assembly plants served by us. Fuel surcharges and price increases drove the ARC improvement.      

24  

Table of Contents 

Chemicals – Price increases and volume growth drove the increase in revenue in 2007 versus 2006. Strong demand for potash exports through Pacific Northwest ports and a robust planting season for corn to supply ethanol producers increased demand for fertilizer shipments in 2007. New business acquired in June 2007 contributed to more shipments of plastics. Soda ash volume increased as export demand grew in the Gulf area and Mexico. Lower production at Canadian locations during the year boosted shipments of liquid and dry chemicals from U.S. sources. 

Price increases, fuel surcharges, and index-based contract escalators drove the increase in revenue and ARC in 2006 versus 2005. Fewer fertilizer shipments largely drove the volume decrease. Wet weather conditions in the Midwest led to weak demand during the fall planting season. In addition, softer export markets for potash, a fertilizer product, also led to reduced volumes. Business interruptions    

  in the third quarter of 2005, primarily attributable to Hurricane Rita, reduced chemicals shipments leading to favorable volume comparisons in 2006.  

Energy – Price increases during 2007 improved both revenue and ARC over 2006 levels. Volume was flat, however, as severe storms in the first quarter and heavy rains in May flooded coal pits in the SPRB, which closed several rail lines and reduced volume levels. Shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines were down 1% due to lower mine production, predominately in the fourth quarter of 2007. 

Price increases, fuel surcharges, and index-based contract escalators primarily drove the increases in revenue and ARC in 2006 over 2005. Volume increases also contributed to revenue growth as coal shipments from the SPRB mines improved 8% during the year. These increases in 2006 partially reflect lower volume levels in 2005, as SPRB Joint Line disruptions, network disruptions resulting from Hurricane Rita, and the October Kansas washouts hampered coal shipments in 2005. Conversely, shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines declined 6% in 2006 due to mine shutdowns during

  the first quarter of 2006, along with the impact of mining production problems and network maintenance throughout the third quarter of 2006.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Industrial Products – Volume declines more than offset price increases, driving industrial products revenue lower in 2007 compared to 2006. Continued softening of the housing construction market, surplus inventories, and general market uncertainty resulted in lower lumber shipments. Delays of rail expansion projects, customer production problems, unfavorable weather, and the ongoing impact of a weak residential construction market reduced stone shipments during the year. 

Price increases and fuel surcharges improved revenue and ARC in 2006 over 2005. Volume levels declined due to lower lumber, paper, and newsprint shipments, which were partially offset by higher steel shipments. The softening of the housing construction market, lower production levels, and general market uncertainty drove the reduction in lumber shipments. Conversely, strong domestic markets throughout most of the year drove the increase in     

construction-related steel material and pipe, particularly those materials used in oil and gas drilling. Hurricane Rita reduced shipment volumes of industrial products in 2005, which favorably affected volume comparisons with 2006.  

Intermodal – Price increases improved intermodal revenue in 2007 compared to 2006. Volume was flat versus 2006 as increased domestic traffic due to new service offerings and increased business under some of our older, long-term contracts were offset by a decrease of premium shipments. International traffic was flat in 2007 compared to 2006 due to general softening of imports from Asia. 

Record volume growth, fuel surcharges, price increases, and index-based contract escalators combined to improve revenue in 2006 over 2005, in addition to the favorable impact from weaker intermodal revenue during 2005 due to the January West Coast storm. Carloadings grew due to strong imports, primarily from Asia, partially offset by decreased domestic traffic. ARC improved due to price increases, fuel surcharges, and contract escalators.     

Mexico Business – Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business increased 5% to $1.44 billion in 2007 compared to 2006. Price increases and more shipments of automotive parts and intermodal containers drove revenue growth in 2007. Volume declines in cement, some agricultural products, and newsprint shipments partially offset the increases. 

Revenue from Mexico business increased 23% to $1.37 billion in 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases, fuel surcharges, and increased shipments of finished vehicles, automotive parts, import beer, dry feed ingredients, and intermodal drove revenue growth in 2006. Volume declines in coal, newsprint, and sulfur shipments partially offset the increases.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating expenses increased $214 million in 2007. Higher fuel prices, which rose 9% during the period, increased operating expenses by $242 million. Wage, benefit and materials inflation and higher depreciation expense also increased expenses during the year. Productivity improvements, better resource utilization, and a lower fuel consumption rate helped offset these increases.  

Operating expenses increased $911 million in 2006. Higher fuel prices, which rose 16% during the period, accounted for $393 million of the increase. Our fuel surcharge programs helped offset these expenses in the form of higher revenue. Wages, benefits, and materials and supplies inflation; a larger workforce; volume-related expenses; and higher locomotive and freight car maintenance and lease expenses accounted for most of the additional increase in 2006. Settlement of all remaining insurance claims related to the January 2005 West Coast storm, an improved fuel consumption rate, and improved car cycle times (which reduced freight car rental     

  expense) partially offset the cost increases. Additional clean-up and restoration costs for the January 2005 West Coast storm favorably affects comparison of 2006 operating expenses with those in 2005. 

Salaries, Wages, and Employee Benefits – Operational improvements and lower volume levels led to a 1% decline in our workforce, saving $79 million in 2007. A smaller workforce and less need for new train personnel reduced training costs during the year, which contributed to the improvement. General wage and benefit inflation mostly offset the reductions, reflecting higher salaries and wages and the impact of higher healthcare and other benefit costs. 

General wage and benefit inflation increased expenses in 2006, reflecting higher salaries and wages and the impact of higher healthcare and other benefit costs. A larger workforce, driven by higher volume levels, and stock option expense required by new accounting rules also contributed to higher expenses. Conversely, reduced protection costs and operational improvements, boosted by network management initiatives and investment in capacity, partially offset these increases. Protection costs represent the differential payment when the wage earned for active employment is lower than an employee’s protected rate of pay. An individual’s protected rate is imposed by the STB for employees adversely affected by a merger or is established by collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions in certain cases. Additionally, we incurred higher labor expenses in 2005 for clean-up and restoration of property damaged by the January West Coast storm. 

Fuel and Utilities – Fuel and utilities include locomotive fuel, utilities other than telephone, and gasoline and other fuels. Higher diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.24 per gallon (including taxes and transportation  

27  

Table of Contents 

 costs) in 2007 compared to $2.06 per gallon in 2006, increased expenses by $242 million. A 2% improvement of our fuel consumption rate resulting from the use of newer, more fuel-efficient locomotives and our fuel conservation programs reduced fuel expense by $43 million, and a 2% decrease of gross ton miles reduced fuel expense by an additional $53 million.  

Higher diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.06 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2006 compared to $1.77 per gallon in 2005, increased expenses by $393 million during 2006. A 3% increase in gross ton-miles resulted in $63 million of additional expenses, which was partially offset by a 2% improvement in our fuel consumption rate due to the use of newer, more fuel-efficient locomotives and our fuel conservation programs. As noted above (and described in this Item 7), we offset a significant portion of increased locomotive fuel expenses through revenue from fuel surcharges. Gasoline, utilities, and propane and other fuel expenses increased $20 million in 2006 due to higher prices and increased usage.  

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents includes primarily rental expense we pay for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; other specialty equipment leases; and office and other rentals. Fewer shipments of industrial products, combined with improved car-cycle times, which reflect operational improvement and better asset utilization, reduced our short-term freight car rental expense by $46 million in 2007 compared to 2006. Lower lease expenses for freight cars, intermodal containers, and fleet vehicles and equipment decreased costs by $20 million in 2007. Conversely, higher locomotive lease expense resulted in a $33 million increase in costs during the year.  

Lease expense increased in 2006 compared to 2005 as we leased more locomotives and freight cars. Growth in automotive and intermodal shipments also increased our short-term freight car rental expense. Improved car-cycle times driven by network management initiatives partially offset this increase.  

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to track structure, including rail, ties, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2007 and 2006.  

Materials and Supplies – Materials used to maintain our lines, structures, and equipment are the principal components of materials and supplies expense. This expense item also includes small tools, office supplies, other materials, and the costs of freight services to ship supplies and materials. Increased use of higher cost components to repair and maintain our fleet of locomotives (including a growing number of units not covered by warranties) added $32 million to materials and supplies expense during 2007. Conversely, we used fewer parts for freight car repairs due to program maintenance scheduling, which lowered costs by $11 million and partially offset the increase for 2007.  

We used more repair materials at higher component costs to repair and maintain freight cars and locomotives in 2006, including a growing number of units not covered by warranties. In addition, we performed more maintenance on locomotives that were maintained internally and not subject to maintenance contracts with third-party contractors compared to 2005.  

Casualty Costs – Personal injury costs, freight and property damage, insurance, and environmental expense are the primary components of casualty costs. Casualty costs were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 driven primarily by a reduction in personal injury expense. Actuarial studies completed during 2007 resulted in a reduction in personal injury expense of approximately $80 million, which was partially offset by an adverse development with respect to one claim.  

Costs were flat in 2006 compared to 2005 as lower bad debt expenses, lower freight damage expenses, and lower expenses for destruction of foreign or leased equipment all offset increased personal injury costs and higher settlement expenses.  

Purchased Services and Other Costs – Purchased services and other costs include expenses associated with outside contractors, state and local taxes, net costs of operating facilities jointly used with other railroads,   

28  

Table of Contents 

 transportation and lodging for train crew employees, trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers, leased automobile maintenance expenses, telephone and cellular expense, employee travel expense, and computer and other general expenses. Higher consulting fees and higher contract expenses (including equipment maintenance) increased costs by $58 million. In addition, crew transportation and lodging costs increased $17 million in 2007 due to higher gas prices and rate inflation. Conversely, lower drayage expense of $13 million, settlement of insurance claims in 2007 related to Hurricane Rita, and higher equity income partially offset these increases. In addition, the year-over-year comparison was affected by the settlement of insurance claims totaling $23 million in 2006 related to the January 2005 West Coast storm and a $9 million gain in 2006 from the sale of two Company-owned airplanes.  

Volume-related expenses, including crew transportation and lodging costs, increased in 2006 driven by 3% growth in carloads. Higher state and local taxes (primarily sales and use taxes related to higher diesel fuel prices) also increased expenses in 2006 compared to 2005. Conversely, lower locomotive contract maintenance costs and lower expenses associated with jointly-owned operating facilities reduced expenses in 2006 compared to 2005. Settlement of all remaining insurance claims related to the January 2005 West Coast storm and the gain from the sale of two airplanes also reduced expenses in 2006. Finally, clean-up and restoration costs related to the January West Coast storm increased expenses in 2005.  

Non-Operating Items  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Income – Lower net gains from non-operating asset sales (primarily real estate) drove the reduction in other income in 2007. Recognition of rental income in 2006 from the settlement of a rent dispute also contributed to the year-over-year decrease in other income. Cash investment returns increased $21 million due to larger cash balances and higher interest rates.  

Lower net gains from non-operating asset sales (primarily real estate) and higher expenses due to rising interest rates associated with our sale of receivables program resulted in a reduction in other income in 2006, which was partially offset by higher rental income for the use of our right-of-way (including 2006 settlements of rate disputes from prior years) and cash investment returns due to higher interest rates.  

Interest Expense – Higher interest expense in 2007 was driven by an increase in the weighted-average debt levels of $7.3 billion, compared to $7.1 billion in 2006. A lower effective interest rate of 6.6% in 2007, compared to 6.7% in 2006, partially offset the effects of the higher debt level.  

Lower interest expense in 2006 was due to a decline in the weighted-average debt level from $7.8 billion in 2005 to $7.1 billion in 2006. A higher effective interest rate of 6.7% in 2006, compared to 6.5% in 2005, partially offset the effects of the declining debt level.  

Income Taxes – Income taxes were $235 million higher in 2007, due primarily to higher pre-tax income and the effect of new tax legislation in the State of Illinois that changed how we determine the amount of our income subject to Illinois tax. The Illinois legislation increased our deferred tax expense by $27 million in 2007. Our effective tax rates were 38.4% and 36.4% in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Income tax expense was $509 million higher in 2006 than 2005. Higher pre-tax income resulted in additional taxes of $414 million and $118 million of the increase resulted from a reduction of deferred tax expense in 2005. Final settlements of pre-1995 tax years and Internal Revenue Service Examination Reports for 1995   

29  

Table of Contents 

 through 2002, among other things, resulted in the $118 million reduction in 2005. Our effective tax rate was 36.4% and 28.6% in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS  

We report key Railroad performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily inventory of rail cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.  

Operating/Performance Statistics  

Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR, as well as other performance measures, are included in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average Train Speed – Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Ongoing network management initiatives and capacity expansion contributed to 2% and 1% improvements of average train speed during 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time – Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time is favorable. Average terminal dwell improved 8% and 5% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a result of ongoing management initiatives and directed efforts to more timely deliver rail cars to our interchange partners and customers. Average terminal dwell time was also impacted by 1% lower volume levels in 2007 and a 3% increase in volume levels during 2006.  

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded or empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Revenue ton-miles declined 1% in relation to the 1% reduction in carloadings in 2007 compared to 2006. Gross ton-miles decreased 2% in 2007 driven by a mix shift in freight shipments. In 2006, gross and revenue-ton miles grew 3% in relation to the 3% increase in carloadings as volume was balanced between the higher and lower density commodities.  

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is defined as our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. Our operating ratio improved 2.2 points to 79.3% in 2007 as a result of yield increases, network management initiatives, and improved productivity. In 2006, our operating ratio improved 5.3 points to 81.5% as a result of solid demand, yield increases, and improved operational efficiency.  

Average Full-Time-Equivalent Employees – Lower employee levels in 2007 versus 2006 resulted from fewer train and engine personnel due to improved network productivity and 1% lower volume levels, partially offset by more employees maintaining our larger locomotive fleet. The larger full-time-equivalent number in 2006, included more people to maintain our larger locomotive and freight car fleet, more employees needed for increased track repair and maintenance programs, more operations management personnel (including an expanded management training program), and more train and engine personnel to meet demand levels.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Customer Satisfaction Index – The customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. The improvement in survey results in 2007 and 2006 generally reflects customer recognition of our improving service.  

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the Corporation’s long-term capital investments, and we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. A comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide a reconciliation from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with the Corporation’s overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide a reconciliation from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2007, debt to capital ratios increased as a result of a $902 million increase in debt from December 31, 2006, and purchases of our common stock under our share repurchase program, partially offset by an increase in retained earnings due to higher earnings in 2007.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of December 31, 2007, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, the sale of certain receivables, an uncommitted line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.9 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2007. We did not make any short-term borrowings under this facility during the year. We also had a $75 million uncommitted line of credit available, which was not used during the year. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the sale of receivables program was $600 million as of December 31, 2007. The sale of receivables program is subject to certain requirements, including maintenance of an investment grade bond rating. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to utilize commercial paper as a source of liquidity. Liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability.  

At December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006, we had working capital deficits of approximately $0.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. A working capital deficit is common in our industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. We maintain adequate resources to meet our daily cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Financial Condition  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash Provided by Operating Activities – We generated higher income in 2007, which was the primary driver of the increase of cash provided by operating activities. Pension contributions in 2006 totaling $150 million also contributed to the year-over-year increase. These increases were partially offset by cash payments representing prior period wage increases in accordance with recent union contract ratifications and higher income tax payments.  

Higher income in 2006 generated the increased cash provided by operating activities, which was partially offset by higher income tax payments, $150 million in voluntary pension contributions, higher material and supply inventories, and higher management incentive payments.  

Cash Used in Investing Activities – Higher capital investments and work in process balances drove the increase in cash used in investing in 2007. The third quarter of 2006 included insurance settlement proceeds for property damages resulting from the 2005 West Coast storm.  

An insurance settlement for the January 2005 West Coast storm and lower balances for work in process decreased the amount of cash used in investing activities in 2006. Higher capital investments and lower proceeds from asset sales partially offset this decrease.  

Cash Used in Financing Activities – The increase in cash used in financing activities resulted primarily from the use of $1.4 billion to repurchase common shares, payment of higher dividends, and lower net proceeds from equity compensation plans ($71 million in 2007 compared to $160 million in 2006). These increases were mostly offset by debt issuances of $1.6 billion in 2007 compared to no issuances in 2006. The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2006 resulted primarily from lower net proceeds from equity compensation plans ($160 million in 2006 compared to $262 million in 2005).  

The table below details cash capital investments for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2008, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $3.1 billion (which may be revised if revenue, tax, or business conditions require changing, or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on, these investments). Major investment categories include $1.6 billion to maintain and improve track infrastructure; $840 million to increase network and terminal capacity; $490 million to upgrade our locomotive and freight car fleet, including the acquisition of 175 high-horsepower locomotives and new covered hoppers; and $170 million primarily to upgrade information technology systems, including the testing of positive train control, and other capital projects. We expect to fund our 2008 cash capital investments   

33  

Table of Contents 

 through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand at December 31, 2007. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we designed to enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) maintain and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

For each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 5.1, 4.4, and 2.9, respectively. The increases in 2007 and 2006 were driven by higher net income. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. See Exhibit 12 for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

Financing Activities  

Credit Facilities – On December 31, 2007, $1.9 billion of credit was available under our revolving credit facility (the facility), which we entered into on April 20, 2007. The facility is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2007. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility requires the maintenance of a debt to net worth coverage ratio. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with this covenant. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility, which expires in April 2012, replaced two $1 billion, 5-year facilities with terms ending in March 2009 and March 2010. The facility includes terms that are comparable with those of the prior facilities, although the minimum net worth requirement of $7.5 billion in prior facilities was removed, and the facility includes a change-of-control provision.  

In addition to our revolving credit facility, a $75 million uncommitted line of credit was available. The line of credit expires in April 2008, and was not used in 2007. We must have equivalent credit available under our five-year facility to draw on this $75 million line.  

At December 31, 2007, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $550 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2006, we did not reclassify any short-term debt as long-term debt as we did not intend to refinance at that time.  

Dividends – On November 15, 2007, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.44 per share, payable beginning on January 2, 2008, to shareholders of record on November 29, 2007. We expect to fund the increase in the quarterly dividend through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, and cash on hand at December 31, 2007.  

Dividend Restrictions – Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $11.5 billion and $7.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. This facility replaced two credit facilities that had minimum net worth covenants that were more restrictive with respect to the amount of retained earnings available for dividends at December 31, 2006.  

Share Repurchase Program – On January 30, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock through the end of 2009. Management’s   

34  

Table of Contents 

 assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund our common stock repurchases through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand at December 31, 2007.  

During 2007, we repurchased approximately 13 million shares under this program at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. These shares were recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings – Our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to $3 billion of debt securities pursuant to a new shelf registration statement, which became effective on March 6, 2007, replacing the $500 million of authority remaining under our shelf registration filed in December 2003. Under the current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings.  

We have issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The net proceeds from these offerings are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.  

Operating Lease Activities  

During 2007, the Railroad, as lessee, entered into long-term operating lease arrangements covering 259 locomotives and 150 rail cars, with a total equipment cost of approximately $538 million. In total, these new lease arrangements will provide for minimum rental payments of approximately $831 million, with a present value of approximately $434 million.  

The lessors financed the purchase of the locomotives and freight cars, in part, by issuing equipment notes that are non-recourse to the Railroad and are secured by assignments of the underlying leases and security interests in the equipment. The Corporation and the Railroad do not guaranty payment of the equipment notes. The Railroad’s obligations to make operating lease payments under the leases are recourse obligations and are not recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  

The Railroad has certain renewal and purchase options with respect to the locomotives and freight cars. If the Railroad does not exercise these options, the equipment will be returned to the lessors at the end of the lease term.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. However, based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.  

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a] Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,219 million, unamortized discount of $(104) million, and market value adjustments of $2 million for debt with qualifying hedges that are recorded as liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Includes an interest component of $4,182 million.  

 [b] Represents total obligations, including interest component of $626 million.  

 [c] Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for locomotives, ties, ballast, and track; and agreements to purchase other goods and services.  

 [d] Includes estimated other postretirement, medical, and life insurance payments and payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. No amounts are included for funded pension as no contributions are currently required.  

 [e] Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liability, including interest and penalties, in accordance with FIN 48 as of December 31, 2007. Where we can reasonably estimate the years in which these liabilities may be settled, this is shown in the table. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a] The $75 million line of credit requires equivalent credit available under the revolving credit facility. None of the credit facilities were used as of December 31, 2007.  

 [b] $600 million of the sale of receivables program was utilized at December 31, 2007.  

 [c] Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.  

 [d] None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2007.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Sale of Receivables – The Railroad transfers most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, as part of a sale of receivables facility. UPRI sells, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in such accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to sell undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the facility was $600 million at both December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors is not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $1,071 million and $1,158 million of accounts receivable held by UPRI at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $471 million and $558 million, respectively. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The interest sold to investors is sold at carrying value, which approximates fair value, and there is no gain or loss recognized from the transaction.  

The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution percentages were to increase one percentage point, the amount of eligible receivables would decrease by $6 million. Should our credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to discontinue the facility.  

The Railroad services the sold receivables; however, the Railroad does not recognize any servicing asset or liability as the servicing fees adequately compensate us for these responsibilities. The Railroad collected approximately $16.1 billion and $15.5 billion during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.  

The costs of the sale of receivables program are included in other income and were $35 million, $33 million, and $23 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The costs include interest, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability.  

The investors have no recourse to the Railroad’s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI. In August 2007, the sale of receivables program was renewed for an additional 364-day period without any significant changes in terms.  

Guarantees – At December 31, 2007, we were contingently liable for $465 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $5 million and $6 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  

OTHER MATTERS   

Inflation – The cumulative effect of long periods of inflation significantly increases asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments – We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a   

37  

Table of Contents 

 specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.  

Market and Credit Risk – We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.  

Determination of Fair Value – We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.  

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.  

At December 31, 2007, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 3% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2008 than our December 31, 2007 variable rate, which was approximately 7%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $3 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2007.  

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2007, and amounts to an increase of approximately $524 million to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2007. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.  

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges – We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.  

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt’s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges – We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had reductions of $4 million and $5 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Fuel Swaps – Two fuel basis swaps cover a total of 151 million gallons of diesel fuel for the period August 2006 through July 2008. These commodity basis swaps require us to make payments to, or receive payments from, the counterparty based on the difference between certain price indices. Changes in the fair value of these swaps are reflected in fuel expense. We reported a derivative asset of approximately $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which represents the fair value of the swaps. The swaps increased fuel expense for 2007 by $1 million and reduced fuel expense for 2006 by $3 million. The recognition of the swaps in fuel expense included monthly net settlements with the counterparty and the change in fair value.  

Accounting Pronouncements – In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements; rather, it applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The provisions of FAS 157 are effective for us beginning in 2008. We expect this new standard will result in increased disclosures but will not have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159). The fair value option established by FAS 159 permits, but does not require, all entities to choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates. An entity would report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. FAS 159 is effective for us beginning in 2008. We do not currently intend to elect the fair value option for any eligible items and do not expect this standard to have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (FAS 141R). FAS 141R will change the accounting for business combinations. Under FAS 141R, an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. FAS 141R will also change the accounting treatment and disclosures with respect to certain specific items in a business combination. FAS 141R applies to us prospectively for business combinations occurring on or after January 1, 2009. Accordingly, any business combinations we engage in will be recorded and disclosed following existing GAAP until January 1, 2009. We expect FAS 141R will have an impact on accounting for business combinations, but the effect will be dependent upon any potential future acquisitions.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – An Amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160). FAS 160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. FAS 160 is effective for us beginning in 2009. We are still assessing the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of FAS 160 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 07-1, Collaborative Arrangements (EITF 07-1), which defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting and disclosure requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement. The requirements of this EITF will be applied to collaborative arrangements in existence on or after January 1, 2009. We are still assessing the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of EITF 07-1 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of   

39  

Table of Contents 

 operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities previously recorded for these matters.  

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.  

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.  

 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in note 1 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.  

Asbestos – We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. During 2004, we engaged a third party with extensive experience in estimating resolution costs for asbestos-related claims to assist us in assessing our potential liability. During 2007, we updated our potential liability to include actual claim experience since 2004. As a result of this reassessment, we decreased our liability by $20 million in 2007 for both asserted and unasserted asbestos-related claims through 2034. This liability excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:  

 •    The number of future claims received would be consistent with historical averages.  

 •    The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.  

 •    The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.  

 •    The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Approximately 13% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 87% related to unasserted claims. These claims are expected to be paid out over the next 27 years. In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2007, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2007 and 2006. We will continue to review actual experience and adjust our estimate as warranted.  

Our asbestos-related claims activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe that our estimates of liability for asbestos-related claims and insurance recoveries are reasonable and probable. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if: strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.  

Environmental – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We identified 339 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 41 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 22 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site. Our environmental liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

41  

Table of Contents 

Our environmental site activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and we can reasonably estimate such costs. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable.  

The liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use third-party actuaries to assist us in measuring the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.  

Our personal injury liability is discounted to present value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Approximately 89% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims, and approximately 11% related to unasserted claims. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Depreciation – The railroad industry is capital intensive. Properties are carried at cost. Provisions for depreciation are computed principally on the straight-line method based on estimated service lives of depreciable property. The lives are calculated using a separate composite annual percentage rate for each depreciable property group, based on the results of internal depreciation studies. We are required to submit a report on depreciation studies and proposed depreciation rates to the STB for review and approval every three years for equipment property and every six years for road property. The cost (net of salvage) of depreciable railroad property retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation, and no gain or loss is recognized. A gain or loss is recognized in other income for all other property upon disposition because the gain or loss is not part of rail operations. The cost of internally developed software is capitalized and amortized based on estimated service lives of the software.  

Significant capital spending in recent years increased the total value of our depreciable assets. Cash capital spending totaled $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, depreciation expense was $1.3 billion. We use various methods to estimate useful lives for each group of depreciable property. Due to the capital intensive nature of the business and the large base of depreciable assets, variances to those estimates could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $47 million. If the estimated useful lives of all assets to be depreciated were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $50 million.  

Income Taxes – As required under FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future consequences are measured based on provisions of tax law as currently enacted; the effects of future changes in tax law are not anticipated. Future tax law changes, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, a 1% increase in the federal income tax rate would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $250 million.  

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to offset future tax benefits that may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments regarding the best available evidence about future events. Based on that analysis, there was no valuation allowance at December 31, 2007 or 2006.  

When we have claimed tax benefits that may be challenged by a tax authority, these uncertain tax benefits are accounted for under FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). We adopted FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007. Prior to 2007, income tax contingencies were accounted for under FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies.  

Under FIN 48, we recognize tax benefits only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement   

43  

Table of Contents 

 standards. For additional information on the adoption of FIN 48, see note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use third-party actuaries to assist us in properly measuring the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and defined contribution medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and healthcare cost trend rate.  

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  

 •    Discount rate is based on a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plan’s expected benefit payments.  

 •    Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  

 •    Healthcare cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.  

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure pension and OPEB expense for 2007 and the estimated impact on 2007 pension and OPEB expense relative to a change in those assumptions:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 CAUTIONARY INFORMATION  

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding dividends in Item 5 and statements and information set forth under the caption “2008 Outlook” in this Item 7, and any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to operational or service improvements; expectations regarding the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations, service, infrastructure improvements,   

44  

Table of Contents 

 transportation plan modifications, and management of customer traffic on the system to meet demand (including statements set forth in Item 2 regarding expectations related to our capital expenditures); expectations as to cost savings, revenue growth, and earnings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; proposed new products and services; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.  

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.  

Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.  

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk