Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company’s ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries other than entities owning interests in the Partially Owned Properties – Unconsolidated and certain other entities in which the Company has investments, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company’s management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management’s control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date hereof and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to the following:  

   •    We intend to actively acquire multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. The Company does not currently intend to begin the development of any new wholly-owned projects but has a substantial number of properties under development now and may commence new development activities if conditions warrant. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position or to complete a development property. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. To the extent that we do develop more properties if conditions warrant, we expect to do so ourselves in addition to co-investing with our development partners. The total number of development units, cost of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;  

   •    Sources of capital to the Company or labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated;  

   •    Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, slow or negative employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company’s control; and  

30  

Table of Contents 

   •    Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.  

Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in Notes 2, 5, 11 and 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.  

Overview  

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT.  

The Company is one of the largest publicly traded real estate companies and is the largest publicly traded owner of multifamily properties in the United States (based on the aggregate market value of its outstanding Common Shares, the number of apartment units wholly owned and total revenues earned). The Company’s corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices throughout the United States. As of February 5, 2009, the Company has approximately 4,700 employees who provide real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.  

EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2008 owned an approximate 94.2% ownership interest in, ERP Operating Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”). The Company is structured as an umbrella partnership REIT (“UPREIT”) under which all property ownership and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. References to the “Company” include EQR, the Operating Partnership and those entities owned or controlled by the Operating Partnership and/or EQR.  

Business Objectives and Operating Strategies  

The Company seeks to maximize current income, capital appreciation of each property and the total return for its shareholders. The Company’s strategy for accomplishing these objectives includes:  

   •    Leveraging our size and scale in four critical ways:  

   •    Investing in apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets to maximize our total return on an enterprise level;  

   •    Meeting the needs of our residents by offering a wide array of product choices and a commitment to service;  

   •    Engaging, retaining and attracting the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed; and  

   •    Sharing resources, customers and best practices in property management and across the enterprise.  

   •    Owning a highly diversified portfolio by investing in target markets defined by a combination of the following criteria:  

   •    High barrier-to-entry (low supply);  

   •    Strong economic predictors (high demand); and  

   •    Attractive quality of life (high demand and retention).  

   •    Giving residents reasons to stay with the Company by providing a range of product options available in our diversified portfolio and by enhancing their experience through our employees and our services.  

   •    Being open and responsive to market realities to take advantage of investment opportunities that align with our long-term vision.  

Acquisition, Development and Disposition Strategies  

The Company anticipates that future property acquisitions, developments and dispositions will occur within the United States. Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt securities, sales of properties, joint venture agreements and collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the   

31  

Table of Contents 

 acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. EQR may also acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities.  

When evaluating potential acquisitions, developments and dispositions, the Company generally considers the following factors:  

   •    strategically targeted markets;  

   •    income levels and employment growth trends in the relevant market;  

   •    employment and household growth and net migration of the relevant market’s population;  

   •    barriers to entry that would limit competition (zoning laws, building permit availability, supply of undeveloped or developable real estate, local building costs and construction costs, among other factors);  

   •    the location, construction quality, condition and design of the property;  

   •    the current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow;  

   •    the potential for capital appreciation of the property;  

   •    the terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;  

   •    the potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located;  

   •    the occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in the vicinity (the overall market and submarket);  

   •    the prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property;  

   •    the benefits of integration into existing operations;  

   •    purchase prices and yields of available existing stabilized properties, if any;  

   •    competition from existing multifamily properties, comparably priced single family homes or rentals, residential properties under development and the potential for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area; and  

   •    opportunistic selling based on demand and price of high quality assets, including condominium conversions.  

The Company generally reinvests the proceeds received from property dispositions primarily to achieve its acquisition, development and rehab strategies and at times to fund its debt and equity repurchase activities. In addition, when feasible, the Company may structure these transactions as tax-deferred exchanges.  

Current Environment  

The slowdown in the economy, which accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008, coupled with continued job losses and/or lack of job growth leads us to be cautious regarding expected performance for 2009. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, our revenue has declined in most of our major markets as the economic slowdown continues to impact existing and prospective residents. Markets with little employment loss should perform better than markets with employment issues, although most of our markets are now experiencing job losses. Should the current credit crisis and general economic recession continue, the Company may continue to experience a period of declining revenues, which would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The vast majority of our leases are for terms of 12 months or less. As a result, we quickly feel the impact of an economic downturn which limits our ability to raise rents or causes us to lower rents on turnover units and lease renewals. Since the second half of 2008, continued job losses and a lack of household formation have hampered our ability to increase rents or caused us to lower rents for new residents. Additionally, in recent months it has become increasingly difficult to maintain rents with our renewing residents.  

After two consecutive years of modest expense growth (same store expenses grew 2.2% between 2008 and 2007 and 2.1% between 2007 and 2006), the Company anticipates that 2009 expenses will increase at a higher rate primarily due to cost pressures from non-controllable areas such as utilities and real estate taxes. The combination of expected declines in revenues and higher overall expense levels will have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations for 2009.  

The continued credit crisis has negatively impacted the availability and pricing of debt capital. During this time, the multifamily residential sector has benefited from the continued liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. A vast majority of the properties we sold this year were financed for the purchaser by one of these agencies. Furthermore, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provided us with approximately $1.6 billion of secured mortgage financing in 2008 at attractive rates when compared to other sources of credit. While the Company believes these agencies will continue to provide liquidity to our sector, should they discontinue doing so, have their mandates changed or reduced or be disbanded by the government, it would significantly reduce our access to debt capital and/or increase borrowing   

32  

Table of Contents 

 costs and would significantly reduce our sales of assets.  

In response to the recession and liquidity issues prevalent in the debt markets, we took a number of steps to better position ourselves. In early 2008, we began pre-funding our maturing debt obligations with approximately $1.6 billion in secured mortgage financing obtained from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We also significantly reduced our acquisition activity. During the second half of 2008, we only acquired one property while we continued selling non-core assets. We expect to continue to be a net seller of assets during 2009 should current conditions continue. Additionally, we significantly reduced our development activities, starting only two new projects in the first half of 2008 and none in the second half of the year. We also reduced the number of planned development projects we will undertake in the future and took a $116.4 million impairment charge to reduce the value of five assets that we no longer plan on pursuing. We do not currently anticipate starting any new wholly-owned development projects during 2009 unless market conditions improve significantly. Finally, during 2009 we also expect to continue our focus on our expense control initiatives.  

Our specific current expectations regarding our results for 2009 and certain items that will affect them are set forth under Results of Operations below.  

We believe that cash and cash equivalents, federally insured investment deposits and current availability on our revolving credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our funding obligations relating to debt retirement and existing development projects into 2011. We expect that our remaining funding obligations for 2011 and subsequent periods will be met through new borrowings, property dispositions and cash generated from operations.  

Despite the challenging conditions noted above, we believe that the Company is well-positioned to withstand the continuing economic downturn. Our properties are geographically diverse and were approximately 93% occupied as of December 31, 2008, little new multifamily rental supply has been added to most of our markets, the national single family home ownership rate continues to decline and the long-term demographic picture is positive.  

We believe we are well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity to cover debt maturities and development fundings in the near term, which should allow us to take advantage of investment opportunities should distressed assets become available at significant discounts. When economic conditions improve, the short-term nature of our leases and the limited supply of new rental housing being constructed should allow us to quickly realize revenue growth and improvement in our operating results.  

Results of Operations  

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company continued to invest or recycle its capital investment in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. In summary, we:  

Year Ended December 31, 2008:  

   •    Acquired $380.7 million of apartment properties consisting of 7 properties and 2,141 units and an uncompleted development property for $31.7 million and invested $2.4 million to obtain the management contract rights and towards the redevelopment of a military housing project consisting of 978 units, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and  

   •    Sold $896.7 million of apartment properties consisting of 41 properties and 10,127 units, as well as 130 condominium units for $26.1 million and a land parcel for $3.3 million.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007:  

   •    Acquired $1.7 billion of apartment properties consisting of 36 properties and 8,167 units and $212.8 million of land parcels, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and  

   •    Sold $1.9 billion of apartment properties consisting of 73 properties and 21,563 units, as well as 617 condominium units for $164.2 million and $50.0 million of land parcels.  

The Company’s primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental   

33  

Table of Contents 

measure of the operating performance of a real estate company because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company’s apartment communities.  

Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2008 and 2007 (the “2008 Same Store Properties”), which represented 115,051 units, impacted the Company’s results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2007 and 2006 (the “2007 Same Store Properties”), which represented 115,857 units, also impacted the Company’s results of operations. Both the 2008 Same Store Properties and 2007 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.  

The Company’s acquisition, disposition and completed development activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The impacts of these activities are also discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.  

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, decreased by approximately $26.9 million or 39.7% when compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below.  

Revenues from the 2008 Same Store Properties increased $53.8 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2008 Same Store Properties increased $13.5 million primarily due to higher real estate taxes, utility costs and payroll. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2008 Same Store Properties:  

2008 vs. 2007  

Year over Year Same Store Results/Statistics  

$ in thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) – 115,051 Same Store Units  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations to NOI for the 2008 Same Store Properties.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2008 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2009, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2009:  

34  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

These 2009 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.  

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $66.1 million or 79.8% and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2008 and 2007, as well as operations from completed development properties and our corporate housing business.  

See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.  

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $2.0 million primarily due to an increase in revenue earned on the management of our military housing venture at Fort Lewis along with the addition of McChord Air Force Base, as well as a decrease in asset management expenses. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company managed 14,485 units and 14,472 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base.  

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses decreased by approximately $10.4 million or 11.9%. This decrease is primarily attributable to lower overall payroll-related costs as a result of a decrease in the number of properties in the Company’s portfolio, as well as a decrease in legal and professional fees.  

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $28.9 million or 5.1% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2007 and 2008 and capital expenditures for all properties owned.  

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, decreased approximately $1.8 million or 3.9% primarily as a result of a $2.2 million decrease in profit sharing expense and lower overall payroll-related costs, partially offset by an increase in legal and professional fees due to a $1.7 million expense recovery recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007 related to a certain lawsuit in Florida (see Note 21). The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $40.0 million to $42.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

Impairment from continuing operations increased approximately $120.4 million primarily due to an impairment charge on land held for development of $116.4 million taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to five potential development projects that will no longer be pursued. In addition, the Company wrote-off an additional $4.0 million of various pursuit and out-of-pocket costs for terminated development transactions and halted condominium conversion properties during 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $13.4 million or 66.5% primarily as a result of an $18.7 million gain recognized during the year ended December 31, 2008 related to the partial debt extinguishment of the Company’s June 2009 and August 2026 public notes (see Note 9), as well as an increase in short-term investments. This was partially offset by a $7.3 million decrease in interest earned on 1031 exchange and earnest money deposits due primarily to the decline in the Company’s transaction activities. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $9.0 million to $12.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, decreased approximately $4.1 million or 0.8% primarily as a result of lower overall effective interest rates and a reduction in debt extinguishment costs, partially offset by higher overall debt levels outstanding due to the Company’s 2007 share repurchase activity and its pre-funding of its 2008 and 2009 debt maturities. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $60.1 million as compared to $45.1 million for the year ended   

35  

Table of Contents 

 December 31, 2007. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 5.56% as compared to 5.96% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company anticipates that interest expense will approximate $475.0 million to $495.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $2.8 million primarily due to a change in the estimate for Texas state taxes and an increase in franchise taxes. The Company anticipates that income and other tax expense will approximate $1.0 million to $2.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $0.4 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to income received in 2007 from the sale of the Company’s 7.075% ownership interest in Wellsford Park Highlands Corporation, an entity which owns a condominium development in Denver, Colorado.  

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased approximately $0.2 million primarily due to a $2.9 million gain on the sale of three unconsolidated institutional joint venture properties realized in 2008 compared to a gain of $2.6 million realized in 2007 on the sale of one property.  

Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased approximately $3.4 million primarily as a result of higher net gains realized in 2007 on the sale of two land parcels compared to the net gain realized in 2008 on the sale of one land parcel.  

Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $542.6 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to a significant decrease in the number of properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007, as well as the mix of properties sold in each year. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, income from continuing operations, net of minority interests, increased by approximately $37.5 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.  

Revenues from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $67.2 million primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2007 Same Store Properties increased $12.6 million primarily due to higher payroll, building, utility costs, insurance and real estate taxes. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2007 Same Store Properties:  

2007 vs. 2006  

Year over Year Same Store Results/Statistics  

$ in thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) – 115,857 Same Store Units  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied units for the period.  

Non-same store operating results increased $106.1 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2007 and 2006 as well as operations from completed development properties and our corporate housing business.  

36  

Table of Contents 

See also Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.  

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased $0.6 million primarily as a result of an increase in property management fees from unconsolidated entities along with a decrease in asset management expenses from managing fewer properties for third parties and unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company managed 14,472 units and 15,020 units, respectively, primarily for unconsolidated entities and our military housing venture at Fort Lewis.  

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses decreased by approximately $8.7 million or 9.0%. This decrease is primarily attributable to lower overall payroll costs, various reserve adjustments for workers compensation and medical costs and lower training costs associated with the completion of a majority of the rollout of a new property management system, partially offset by higher legal and professional fees.  

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased $79.6 million primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on newly acquired properties and capital expenditures for all properties owned.  

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $2.6 million between the periods under comparison. This increase was primarily due to an increase in restricted share expense and severance costs associated with the resignation of two of the Company’s executives as well as less expense recovery related to a certain lawsuit in Florida (see Note 21), partially offset by a decrease in profit sharing.  

Impairment from continuing operations decreased $32.3 million primarily due to an impairment charge on goodwill of $30.0 million taken in 2006 related to the corporate housing business. In addition, in 2006 the Company wrote-off $2.0 million of various deferred sales costs following the decision to halt the condominium conversion and sale process at five assets.  

Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased approximately $10.7 million primarily as a result of $14.7 million of forfeited deposits for various terminated transactions along with $3.7 million in proceeds from eBay’s acquisition of Rent.com received during the year ended December 31, 2006. This was partially offset by $4.1 million received in 2007 for insurance litigation settlement proceeds, a $2.7 million increase in interest earned on 1031 exchange and earnest money deposits and a $0.7 million increase in interest earned on short-term investments.  

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $67.3 million primarily as a result of higher overall debt levels outstanding due to the Company’s share repurchase activity as well as the timing of acquisitions and dispositions, partially offset by lower overall effective interest rates. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $45.1 million as compared to $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 5.96% as compared to 6.21% for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $1.8 million primarily due to a taxable gain incurred in 2006 on a partially owned land parcel, partially offset by refunds received in 2006 as a result of a change in tax status of a portfolio of partially owned consolidated properties.  

Income from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1.0 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to the sale of the Company’s 7.075% ownership interest in Wellsford Park Highlands Corporation, an entity which owns a condominium development in Denver, Colorado and profit participation received from the sale of condominium units at a development project that was sold in 2003.  

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased $2.3 million primarily as a result of a $2.6 million gain on the sale of an unconsolidated institutional joint venture property during the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased $3.6 million primarily as a result of higher net gains realized in 2007 on the sales of land parcels compared to the net gains realized in 2006.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Discontinued operations, net of minority interests, decreased approximately $120.8 million between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to a significant decrease in the number of properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, as well as the mix of properties sold in each year. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

For the Year Ended December 31, 2008  

As of January 1, 2008, the Company had approximately $50.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1.28 billion available under its revolving credit facility (net of $80.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and not available for borrowing and net of the $139.0 million balance outstanding). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2008 was approximately $890.8 million and the amount available on the Company’s revolving credit facility was $1.29 billion (net of $130.0 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and $75.0 million which had been committed by a now bankrupt financial institution and is not available for borrowing). The significant increase in the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance since December 31, 2007 is a direct result of its decision to pre-fund its 2008 and 2009 debt maturities with the closing of three secured mortgage loan pools in 2008: $500.0 million in March 2008, $550.0 million in August 2008 and $543.0 million in December 2008. See Notes 8 and 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:  

   •    Disposed of 45 properties and various individual condominium units, receiving net proceeds of approximately $887.6 million;  

   •    Obtained $1.6 billion in new mortgage financing and terminated nine forward starting swaps designated to hedge $450.0 million of the total loan issuances, making payments of $26.7 million;  

   •    Obtained an additional $248.5 million of new mortgage loans primarily on development properties; and  

   •    Issued approximately 1.2 million Common Shares and received net proceeds of $30.8 million.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:  

   •    Invest $521.5 million primarily in development projects;  

   •    Acquire seven rental properties and one uncompleted development property, utilizing cash of $388.1 million;  

   •    Invest $2.4 million in a military housing project located in the state of Washington;  

   •    Repurchase 0.2 million Common Shares and settle 0.1 million Common Shares, utilizing cash of $12.5 million (see Note 3);  

   •    Repay $130.0 million of fixed rate private notes;  

   •    Repurchase $174.0 million of fixed rate public notes; and  

   •    Repay $435.4 million of mortgage loans.  

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions, and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, the Company may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Company repurchased $7.9 million (220,085 shares at an average price per share of $35.93) of its Common Shares during the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had authorization to repurchase an additional $467.7 million of its shares. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:  

38  

Table of Contents 

Debt Summary as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $60.1 million and $45.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Debt Maturity Schedule as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2008.  

   (2) On January 27, 2009, the Company repurchased at par $105.2 million of its 4.75% unsecured notes due June 15, 2009 and $185.2 million of its 6.95% unsecured notes due March 2, 2011 pursuant to a cash tender offer announced on January 16, 2009.  

   (3) Includes the Company’s $500.0 million floating rate term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company.  

   (4) Includes $548.6 million face value of 3.85% convertible unsecured debt with a final maturity of 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021.  

39  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2008:  

Unsecured Debt Summary as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: SIFMA stands for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and is the tax-exempt index equivalent of LIBOR.  

   (1) $150.0 million in fair value interest rate swaps converts a portion of the 4.750% notes due June 15, 2009 to a floating interest rate. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased $72.6 million of these notes at a discount to par of approximately 1.0% and recognized a gain on early debt extinguishment of $0.7 million. On January 27, 2009, the Company repurchased $105.2 million of these notes at par pursuant to a cash tender offer announced on January 16, 2009.  

   (2) On January 27, 2009, the Company repurchased $185.2 million of these notes at par pursuant to a cash tender offer announced on January 16, 2009.  

   (3) Convertible notes mature on August 15, 2026. The notes are callable by the Company on or after August 18, 2011. The notes are putable by the holders on August 18, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased $101.4 million of these notes at a discount to par of approximately 17.7% and recognized a gain on early debt extinguishment of $18.0 million.  

   (4) Notes are private. All other unsecured debt is public.  

   (5) Represents the Company’s $500.0 million term loan facility, which matures on October 5, 2010, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company.  

   (6) As of December 31, 2008, there was no amount outstanding and approximately $1.29 billion available on the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facility.  

As of February 26, 2009, an unlimited amount of debt securities remains available for issuance by the Operating Partnership under a registration statement that became automatically effective upon filing with the SEC in December 2008 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on December 21, 2011 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount). As of February 26, 2009, an unlimited amount of equity   

40  

Table of Contents 

 securities remains available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement the SEC declared effective in December 2008 (under SEC regulations enacted in 2005, the registration statement automatically expires on December 15, 2011 and does not contain a maximum issuance amount).  

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2008 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all OP Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) the “Common Share Equivalent” of all convertible preferred shares and preference units; and (iii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.  

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Convertible Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands except for share/unit and per share/unit amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Perpetual Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2008  

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company generally expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facility. Under normal operating conditions, the Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to   

41  

Table of Contents 

 meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. However, there may be times when the Company experiences shortfalls in its coverage of distributions, which may cause the Company to consider reducing its distributions and/or using the proceeds from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected and it may not be able to maintain its current distribution levels. The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties as well as joint ventures. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $18.7 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2008, $10.9 billion or 58.1%, was unencumbered.  

As of February 5, 2009, the Operating Partnership’s senior debt credit ratings from Standard & Poors (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch are BBB+, Baal and A-, respectively. As of February 5, 2009, the Company’s preferred equity ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are BBB-, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively.  

The Operating Partnership has a long-term revolving credit facility with available borrowings as of February 5, 2009 of $1.30 billion that matures in February 2012 (See Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short-term liquidity requirements. As of February 5, 2009, no amounts were outstanding under this facility.  

See Note 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2008.  

Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate  

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:  

   •    Replacements (inside the unit). These include:  

   •    flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl, linoleum or tile;  

   •    appliances;  

   •    mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;  

   •    furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and  

   •    blinds/shades.  

All replacements are depreciated over a five-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.  

   •    Building improvements (outside the unit). These include:  

   •    roof replacement and major repairs;  

   •    paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;  

   •    amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;  

   •    major building mechanical equipment systems;  

   •    interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;  

   •    major landscaping and grounds improvement; and  

   •    vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.  

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.  

42  

Table of Contents 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $169.8 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):  

Capitalized Improvements to Real Estate  

For the Year Ended December 31, 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total units – Excludes 9,776 unconsolidated units and 4,709 military housing (fee managed) units, for which capitalized improvements to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.  

 (2) Established Properties – Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2006.  

 (3) New Acquisition Properties – Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2006, 2007 and 2008. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 18,983 units.  

 (4) Other – Includes properties either partially owned or sold during the period, commercial space, corporate housing and condominium conversions. Also includes $34.2 million included in replacements spent on various assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $252.7 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts):  

Capitalized Improvements to Real Estate  

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total units – Excludes 10,446 unconsolidated units and 3,731 military housing (fee managed) units, for which capitalized improvements to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.  

 (2) Established Properties – Wholly Owned Properties acquired prior to January 1, 2005.  

 (3) New Acquisition Properties – Wholly Owned Properties acquired during 2005, 2006 and 2007. Per unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 25,406 units.  

 (4) Other – Includes properties either partially owned or sold during the period, commercial space, corporate housing and condominium conversions. Also includes $22.2 million included in building improvements spent on 26 specific assets related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets.  

The Company incurred less in capitalized improvements per unit and overall in 2008 primarily due to enhanced efforts to limit the scope of projects and greater cost controls on vendors. For 2009, the Company estimates an annual stabilized run rate of approximately $925 per unit of capital expenditures for its established properties. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $2.3 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $2.0 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2009. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities and from investment cash flow.  

Derivative Instruments  

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company seeks to limit these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.  

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from those instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives it currently has in place.  

See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2008.  

Other  

Total distributions paid in January 2009 amounted to $142.2 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008.  

Minority Interests as of December 31, 2008 decreased by $39.5 million when compared to December 31, 2007 primarily as a result of the following:  

   •    Distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $33.7 million (excluding Junior Preference Unit distributions);  

   •    The allocation of income from operations to holders of OP Units in the amount of $26.9 million;  

   •    The issuance of 19,017 OP Units related to the true-up of the purchase price on the acquisition of one property in April 2006 with a valuation of $0.8 million; and  

   •    The conversion of 1.8 million OP Units into Common Shares valued at $49.9 million.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations  

The Company has co-invested in various properties that are unconsolidated and accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Management does not believe these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company’s liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its property management and ownership activities. During 2000 and 2001, the Company entered into institutional ventures with an unaffiliated partner. At the respective closing dates, the Company sold and/or contributed 45 properties containing 10,846 units to these ventures and retained a 25% ownership interest in the ventures. The Company’s joint venture partner contributed cash equal to 75% of the agreed-upon equity value of the properties comprising the ventures, which was then distributed to the Company. The Company’s strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its concentration of properties in a variety of markets. The Company sold three properties consisting of 670 units and one property consisting of 400 units during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company and its joint venture partner currently intend to wind up these investments over the next few years by selling the related assets. The Company cannot estimate what, if any, profit it will receive from these dispositions or if the Company will in fact receive its equity back.  

As of December 31, 2008, the Company has 10 projects totaling 3,568 units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2011. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 18 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities.  

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2008:  

44  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.  

 (b) Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured and unsecured debt based on obligations outstanding at December 31, 2008 and inclusive of capitalized interest. For floating rate debt, the current rate in effect at December 31, 2008 is assumed to be in effect through the respective maturity date of each instrument.  

 (c) Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for three properties.  

 (d) Estimated payments to the Company’s Chairman, two former CEO’s and its former chief operating officer based on planned retirement dates.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or different presentation of our financial statements.  

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2007.  

The Company has identified six significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The six critical accounting policies are:  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill  

The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators of permanent impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal and environmental concerns, as well as the Company’s ability to hold and its intent with regard to each asset. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.  

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate  

The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.  

Cost Capitalization  

See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for discussion of the policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.  

45  

Table of Contents 

The Company follows the guidance in SFAS No. 67, Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects, for all development projects and uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend all of their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction-in-progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovations at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments  

The Company follows the guidance under SFAS No. 157 when valuing its financial instruments. The valuation of financial instruments under SFAS No. 107 and SFAS No. 133, as amended, requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.  

Revenue Recognition  

Rental income attributable to residential leases is recorded on a straight-line basis, which is not materially different than if it were recorded when due from residents and recognized monthly as it is earned. Leases entered into between a resident and a property for the rental of an apartment unit are generally year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties on an annual or monthly basis. Fee and asset management revenue and interest income are recorded on an accrual basis.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company accounts for its share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006, which results in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the share compensation granted.  

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. This model is only one method of valuing options and the Company’s use of this model should not be interpreted as an endorsement of its accuracy. Because the Company’s share options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management’s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its share options and the actual value of the options may be significantly different.  

Funds From Operations  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) available to Common Shares and OP Units decreased $91.8 million, or 12.7%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units increased $7.3 million, or 1.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006.  

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2008:  

46  

Table of Contents 

Funds From Operations  

(Amounts in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property. FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units is calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Minority Interests – Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Minority Interests – Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for EQR Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.  

 (2) The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as measures of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk