PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 32,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 75 through 76 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 18 through 37 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 

Cessna Segment 

Cessna is the world’s leading general aviation company based on unit sales with two principal lines of business: aircraft sales and aftermarket services. Aircraft sales include Citation jets, Caravan single-engine utility turboprops and single-engine utility and high-performance piston aircraft. Aftermarket services include parts, maintenance, inspection and repair services. Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 23%, 25% and 26% of our total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Revenues for Cessna’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The family of jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Mustang, Citation M2, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation XLS+ and the new Citation Sovereign+. The new Citation X+, recently verified by the FAA as the fastest civilian jet in the world, is expected to be certified in early 2014. In addition, Cessna is developing the Citation Latitude, a midsize business jet scheduled for first flight in 2014 and expected to enter into service in 2015, as well as the Citation Longitude, a super midsize business jet expected to enter into service in 2017. 

The Cessna Caravan is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are used in the United States primarily for overnight express package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include air taxi service, humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport. Cessna also offers a single-engine piston product line that includes the Skyhawk SP, Stationair and the new high performance TTx which we began delivering during 2013. The Turbo Skylane JT-A, Cessna’s first Jet-A fueled piston aircraft, is expected to be certified and to begin delivering in 2014. 

The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by 15 Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna, two of which are co-located with Bell Helicopter, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 25 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna offers an array of service options for Citation aircraft, known as ServiceDirect®, which delivers service capabilities directly to customer locations with a Mobile Service Unit fleet of 22 vehicles in the United States, Canada and Europe. Cessna Caravan and single-engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna. 

Cessna markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives. Cessna has several competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, direct operating costs, product support and reputation. 

2 

Bell Segment 

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 37%, 35% and 31% of our total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). During 2013, the Bell Boeing V-22 program was awarded a five-year contract for the production and delivery of an additional 99 V-22 tiltrotor aircraft from 2014 through 2019. The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, which have 84% parts commonality between them. Bell also continues to support the OH-58D Kiowa Warrior armed scout helicopter for the U.S. Army. 

Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue, emergency medical helicopter operators and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently offered by Bell for commercial applications include the 206L-4, 407, 407GX, 412EP/EPI, 429 and Huey II. Bell’s 525 Relentless, its first super medium commercial helicopter, is currently in development with a projected first flight in 2014. In addition, during 2013 Bell announced the development of the Bell SLS, a high performance, short-light single helicopter, which will reenter Bell into the market it created with the introduction of the original JetRanger. 

For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of 8 Bell-operated service centers, two of which are co-located with Cessna, 106 independent service centers located in 34 countries and four supply centers that are located worldwide. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering. 

Bell competes against a number of competitors throughout the world for its helicopter business and its parts and support business. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation. 

Textron Systems Segment 

Textron Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems, marine and land systems, weapons and sensors and a variety of defense and aviation mission support products and services. Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace, homeland security and general aviation markets, and represents approximately 14%, 14% and 17% of Textron’s revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. Government customers, it also sells products to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3 

Unmanned Aircraft Systems 

Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) consists of the AAI UAS and AAI Logistics & Technical Services businesses. AAI UAS has designed, manufactured and fielded combat-proven unmanned aircraft systems for more than 25 years, including the U.S. Army’s premier tactical UAS, the Shadow. AAI UAS’s unmanned aircraft and interoperable command and control technologies provide critical situational awareness and actionable intelligence for users worldwide. AAI Logistics & Technical Services provides logistical support for various unmanned aircraft systems as well as training and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide. 

Marine and Land Systems 

The Marine and Land Systems business is operated as Textron Marine & Land Systems (TMLS). TMLS is a world leader in the design, production and support of armored vehicles, turrets and related subsystems as well as advanced marine craft. TMLS produces a family of extremely mobile, highly protective vehicles for the U.S. Army and international allies, and is developing the U.S. Navy’s next generation air cushion vehicle. 

Weapons and Sensors 

The Weapons and Sensors business is operated as Textron Defense Systems (TDS). This business consists of state-of-the-art smart weapons; airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems; and protection systems for the defense, aerospace and homeland security industries. TDS primarily sells its products to international allies through foreign military sales. 

Mission Support and Other 

Mission Support and Other includes three businesses: AAI Test & Training, Lycoming and Overwatch. AAI Test & Training provides high technology test equipment and electronic warfare test and training solutions. Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation and remotely piloted aircraft markets. Overwatch, operated as Overwatch Geospatial Solutions and Overwatch Intelligence Solutions, provides intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement communities. 

In December 2013, we acquired two flight simulation and aircraft training product companies, Mechtronix, Inc. and OPINICUS Corporation. We intend to combine these businesses with our existing training and simulation business, currently included in the UAS product line, which serves the military aircraft market, to form Textron Simulation & Training Systems. This business designs, develops, installs and provides maintenance of advanced full flight simulators for both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft and designs, markets and supports aviation training products and related services for airlines, aircraft OEMs, flight training centers and training organizations worldwide. 

Industrial Segment 

Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products under three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fuel Systems and Functional Components 

Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is operated by our Kautex business unit, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles, windshield and headlamp washer systems for automobiles and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex serves the global automobile market, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. In addition, Kautex produces cast iron engine camshafts in North America. From facilities in Germany and Poland, Kautex develops and produces plastic bottles and containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 15%, 15% and 16% of our total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

Our automotive products have several major competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors including price, technology, environmental performance, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity. 

4 

Golf, Turf Care and Light Transportation Vehicles 

Our Golf, Turf Care and Light Transportation Vehicles product line includes the products designed, manufactured and sold by our E-Z-GO and Jacobsen business units. 

E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars, off-road utility vehicles and light transportation vehicles under the E-Z-GO, Cushman and Bad Boy Buggies brand names. Although E-Z-GO is best known for its electric-vehicle technology, it also manufactures and sells models powered by internal combustion engines. E-Z-GO’s diversified customer base includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airports and educational and corporate campuses. Sales are made through a combination of factory direct resources and a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other competitors for off-road and light transportation vehicles. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. 

Jacobsen designs, manufactures and sells professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. Brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s customers include golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Products are sold primarily through a worldwide network of distributors and dealers, as well as factory direct. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other major competitors for specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on price, product features, product quality and reliability and product support. 

Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment 

Our Greenlee business unit designs and manufactures powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, mechanical and hydraulic tools, cable connectors, and fiber optic assemblies under the Greenlee, Klauke, Paladin Tools and Tempo brand names. These products are used principally in the construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, utility and plumbing industries. During 2013, our Greenlee business acquired Sherman & Reilly, Inc., a manufacturer of underground and aerial transmission and distribution products, and HD Electric Company, a designer and manufacturer of power utility products. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and also sells its products directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through joint ventures in North America and China, Greenlee also sells its products to the plumbing, industrial manufacturing and related industries. Greenlee faces competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, delivery lead time, product quality and reliability. 

Finance Segment 

Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters as well as pre-owned Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters on a limited basis. The majority of new finance receivables are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. New originations in the U.S. are primarily for purchasers who had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing for the purchase of Textron-manufactured products. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $248 million, $309 million and $284 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. 

The commercial finance business traditionally is extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service. 

Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 28 for information about the Finance segment’s credit performance. 

5 

Backlog 

Our backlog at the end of 2013 and 2012 is summarized below: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Approximately 43% of our total backlog at December 28, 2013 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2014. Orders from Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries and individuals worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase agreement and the initial customer deposit is received. We work with our customers to provide estimated delivery dates, which may be adjusted based on customer needs or our production schedule, but do not establish definitive delivery dates until approximately six months before expected delivery. There is considerable uncertainty as to when or whether backlog will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability; these factors also may be impacted by the economy and public perceptions of private corporate jet usage. While backlog is an indicator of future revenues, we cannot reasonably estimate the year each order in backlog ultimately will result in revenues and cash flows. Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or upon cancellation by the customer. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray costs, including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be retained or refunded at our discretion. 

Backlog with the U.S. Government in the above table includes only funded amounts as the U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding formally appropriated for a contract. Bell’s backlog includes $2.7 billion related to a multi-year procurement contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft. 

U.S. Government Contracts 

In 2013, approximately 30% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the “fee-for-service” contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 

Research and Development 

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 53 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

6 

Patents and Trademarks 

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: Aeronautical Accessories; AAI; acAlert; Ascent; Aerosonde; AH-1Z; Ambush; Arc Horizon; Bad Boy Buggies; BattleHawk; Bell; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Cessna Corvalis TTX; Cessna Turbo Skylane JT-A; Citation; CITATION ALPINE EDITION; CitationAir; CitationAir Jetcard; Citation Encore+; Citation Latitude; Citation Longitude; Citation M2; Citation Sovereign; Citation TEN; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; Clairity; CLAW; Commando; Corvalis; Cushman; Eclipse; Excel; Extreme; Extreme Ti-METAL; E-Z-GO; Gator Eye; Gator Grips; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; HDE; Huey; Huey II; iCommand; IE2; Instinct; Integrated Command Suite; Jacobsen; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; LF; Lycoming; M1117 ASV; McCauley; Mechtronix; Millenworks; Mustang; Next Generation Fuel System; NGFS; Odyssey; On a Mission; OPINICUS; Overwatch; PDCue; Power Advantage; Pro-Fit; ProParts; Ransomes; REALCue; REALFeel; Recoil; Relentless; Rothenberger LLC; RT2; RXV; Sensor Fuzed Weapon; ServiceDirect; Shadow; Shadow Knight; Shadow Master; SkyBOOKS; Skycatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Speed Punch; Spider; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; Super Medium; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue; Textron; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Systems; TRUESET; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UH-1Y; VALOR; V-22 Osprey; V-280; 2FIVE; 206; 407; 407GT; 407GX; 412, 429, 525 and 525 Relentless. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures. 

Environmental Considerations 

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 74 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. 

Employees 

At December 28, 2013, we had approximately 32,000 employees. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 14, 2014. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009, at which time the Chief Operating Officer position was eliminated. In July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a $16 billion maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989. 

7 

Mr. Connor joined Textron in August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996. 

Ms. Johnson was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in July 2012. Ms. Johnson joined Textron in 1996 and has held various human resources leadership positions across Textron’s businesses, including Senior Human Resources Business Partner for Greenlee and Vice President of Human Resources for E-Z-GO, a position she held from 2006 until joining Bell in 2009. At Bell, she most recently served as Director of Talent and Organizational Development. Prior to Textron, Ms. Johnson held roles in human resources, marketing and sales, and finance disciplines at several organizations, including IBM and Hamilton Sundstrand, a United Technologies Company. 

Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer. Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general counsel of Price Communications Corporation. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Forward-Looking Information 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance,” “project,” “target,” “potential,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “RISK FACTORS,” among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following: 

· Interruptions in the U.S. Government’s ability to fund its activities and/or pay its obligations; 

· Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries; 

· Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; 

· The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; 

· Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; 

· Volatility in the global economy or changes in worldwide political conditions that adversely impact demand for our products; 

· Volatility in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; 

· Risks related to our international business, including establishing and maintaining facilities in locations around the world and relying on joint venture partners, subcontractors, suppliers, representatives, consultants and other business partners in connection with international business, including in emerging market countries; 

· Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables; 

· Performance issues with key suppliers or subcontractors; 

· Legislative or regulatory actions, both domestic and foreign, impacting our operations or demand for our products; 

· Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities; 

· The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs; 

8 

· The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products; 

· Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers; 

· Increases in pension expense or employee and retiree medical benefits; 

· Continued demand softness or volatility in the markets in which we do business; 

· The inability to complete announced acquisitions; 

· Difficulty or unanticipated expenses in connection with integrating acquired businesses; and 

· The risk that anticipated synergies and opportunities as a result of acquisitions will not be realized or the risk that acquisitions do not perform as planned, including, for example, the risk that acquired businesses will not achieve revenue projections. 

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS