PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

General Development of Business  

AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME). The common stock of AMETEK is a component of the S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indices.  

Website Access to Information  

The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com (in the “Investors – Financial News and Information” section), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has posted, free of charge, on the investor information portion of its website, its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Those documents also are available in published form, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312.  

Products and Services  

The Company markets its products worldwide through two operating groups, the Electronic Instruments Group (“EIG”) and the Electromechanical Group (“EMG”). EIG provides monitoring, testing, calibration and display devices for the process, aerospace, power and industrial markets. EMG produces highly engineered electrical connectors for electronic applications, precision motion control solutions, specialty metals and alloys and electric motors, blowers and heat exchangers. End markets include aerospace and defense, medical devices, office equipment, factory automation, mass transit and other industrial markets. The Company continues to grow through strategic acquisitions focused on differentiated niche markets in instrumentation and electromechanical devices.  

Competitive Strengths  

Management believes that the Company has several significant competitive advantages that assist it in sustaining and enhancing its market positions. Its principal strengths include:  

Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains a significant share in many of its targeted niche markets because of its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. In EIG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments within the process, aerospace, power and industrial instrumentation markets. In EMG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments including aerospace and defense, precision motion control, factory automation and robotics, medical devices, mass transit and office equipment products.  

Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to develop innovative products and maintain leading market positions. Historically, the Company has grown by extending its technical expertise into the manufacture of customized products for its customers, as well as through strategic acquisitions. EIG competes primarily on  

2  

Table of Contents 

 the basis of product innovation in several highly specialized instrumentation markets, including process measurement, aerospace, power generation and distribution, heavy-vehicle dashboard and medical instrumentation. EMG’s differentiated businesses focus on developing customized products for specialized applications in aerospace and defense, medical, business machines and other industrial applications.  

Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. EMG has manufacturing plants in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico and Serbia to lower its costs and achieve strategic proximity to its customers, providing the opportunity to increase international sales and market share. Certain of the Company’s electronic instrument businesses have relocated manufacturing operations to low-cost locales. Furthermore, strategic acquisitions and joint ventures in Europe, North America and Asia have resulted in additional cost savings and synergies through the consolidation of operations, supply chain, product lines and distribution channels, which benefits both operating groups.  

Experienced Management Team. Another key component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and its commitment to the performance of the Company. AMETEK’s senior management has extensive experience, averaging approximately 25 years with the Company, and is financially committed to the Company’s success through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.  

Business Strategy  

AMETEK’s objectives are to increase the Company’s earnings and financial returns through a combination of operational and financial strategies. Those operational strategies include Operational Excellence, New Product Development, Global and Market Expansion, and Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances designed to achieve double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. To support those operational objectives, financial initiatives have been, or may be, undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases. AMETEK’s commitment to earnings growth is reflected in its continued implementation of cost-reduction programs designed to achieve the Company’s long-term, best-cost objectives.  

AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening the Company’s competitive position across its businesses. Through its Operational Excellence strategy, the Company seeks to reduce production costs and improve its market positions. The strategy has played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. AMETEK believes that Operational Excellence, which focuses on Six Sigma process improvements, global sourcing and lean manufacturing and emphasizes team building and a participative management culture, has enabled the Company to improve operating efficiencies and product quality, increase customer satisfaction and yield higher cash flow from operations, while lowering operating and administrative costs and shortening manufacturing cycle times.  

New Product Development. New products are essential to AMETEK’s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has consistently increased its investment in new product development, and, in 2012, added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across each of its businesses. Its most recent product introductions include:  

   •    MINISCAN IRXpert, the first completely portable multi-fuel analyzer for gasoline, diesel and biodiesel fuels that incorporates infrared technology to achieve unmatched accuracy of fuel properties;  

   •    EDAX® TEAM™ Pegasus, which combines two leading materials characterization technologies into a single integrated microanalysis system for scanning electron microscopes;  

3  

Table of Contents 

   •    Land Instruments Critical Vessel Monitoring System, which uses advanced thermal imaging cameras to monitor critical process vessels used in power generation, petrochemical processing, oil and gas refining and combustion processes;  

   •    PITTMAN® 8540 Series DC servo motors, which offer high performance in a small package for such high-tech applications as medical devices, laboratory instruments, data storage and precision automation machinery;  

   •    Haydon Kerk® micro-slide linear actuator that has a resolution of 15 microns / step (0.00006-in /step) and is ideal for such applications as micro-fluidics and optical positioning that require precise motion control in a small package;  

   •    The latest generation of SPECTROTEST mobile metal analyzers that are lighter weight, easier to use and provide up to four times the system throughput than earlier versions;  

   •    Drexelbrook® Universal IV level measurement transmitter, which features stable, repeatable and accurate level measurement and is ideally suited for the most common to the most challenging level measurement applications;  

   •    Lloyd Instruments® LS5 universal materials testing system that incorporates the latest linear guide technology with an advanced software compensation system to ensure the highest level of precision measurement;  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    AMETEK® ultra-thin titanium strip in thicknesses as low as 0.004 inches that offers outstanding performance characteristics for pacemakers and neurostimulator enclosures and other medical implants;  

   •    The Detective-200™ advanced radiation detector, which represents a breakthrough in radiation identification technology by offering ultra-sensitivity and ease of use in a compact, portable detection unit;  

   •    CAMECA IMS 7f Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometer, which delivers precise elemental and isotopic analysis for researchers in advanced material research, including leading-edge semiconductor development;  

   •    Elgar Terra SAS™ standalone solar array simulator that allows solar energy system developers to accurately simulate test protocols and real-world solar installation conditions in the laboratory; and  

   •    The Universal Instrument Panel-Message Center, which was added to the Next Generation Instrument (NGI®) family of road-tested heavy vehicle dashboard displays.  

Global and Market Expansion. AMETEK’s largest presence outside the United States is in Europe, where it has operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Italy, the Czech Republic, Serbia, Romania, France, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands. These operations provide design, engineering and manufacturing capability, product-line breadth, enhanced European distribution channels and low-cost production. AMETEK has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by building and expanding low-cost electric motor and instrument plants in Reynosa, Mexico, Sao Paulo, Brazil and Shanghai, China. It also continues to achieve geographic and market expansion in Asia through an increased sales and marketing presence in China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Middle East, Russia, Singapore and Taiwan as well as joint ventures in China, Japan and Taiwan.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. The Company continues to pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines, improve its market share positions and increase earnings through sales growth, and operational efficiencies at the acquired businesses. Since the beginning of 2008, through December 31, 2012, the Company has completed 27 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1.2 billion, including seven acquisitions in 2012 (see “Recent Acquisitions”). Through these and prior acquisitions, the Company’s management team has gained considerable experience in successfully acquiring and integrating new businesses. The Company intends to continue to pursue this acquisition strategy.  

2012 OVERVIEW  

Operating Performance  

In 2012, AMETEK achieved sales of $3.3 billion, an increase of 11.5% from 2011 and established records for orders, backlog, net sales, operating income, operating income margins, net income, diluted earnings per share and operating cash flow.  

On May 1, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a three-for-two split of the Company’s common stock. The stock split resulted in the issuance of one additional share for every two shares owned. The stock split was paid on June 29, 2012, to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 15, 2012. Additionally, the Board of Directors approved a 50% increase in the quarterly cash dividend rate on the Company’s common stock to $0.06 per common share from $0.04 per common share on a post-split basis. All share and per share information included in this report reflects the impact of the stock split. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Recent Acquisitions  

The Company spent $747.7 million in cash, net of cash acquired, for seven business acquisitions in 2012.  

In January 2012, the Company acquired O’Brien Corporation, a leading manufacturer of fluid and gas handling solutions, sample conditioning equipment and process analyzers. O’Brien is part of EIG.  

In May 2012, the Company acquired Dunkermotoren GmbH, a leader in advanced motion control solutions for a wide range of industrial automation applications. Dunkermotoren is part of EMG.  

In October 2012, the Company acquired Micro-Poise Measurement Systems (“Micro-Poise”), a leading provider of integrated test and measurement solutions for the tire industry. Micro-Poise is part of EIG.  

In December 2012, the Company acquired Aero Components International (“ACI”), which expands the Company’s global maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) capabilities into fuel system repair. ACI is part of EMG.  

In December 2012, the Company acquired Avtech Avionics and Instruments (“Avtech”), which broadens the Company’s MRO expertise in next generation avionics. Avtech is part of EMG.  

In December 2012, the Company acquired Sunpower, Inc., a leader in the development of Stirling cycle cryocoolers and externally heated Stirling engine technology for medical, scientific, telecommunication and space applications. Sunpower is part of EIG.  

In December 2012, the Company acquired Crystal Engineering, a manufacturer of high-end, portable pressure calibrators and digital test gauges for the oil and gas, power generation and other industrial markets. Crystal Engineering is part of EIG.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales  

Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The Company’s international sales increased 14% to $1,707.6 million in 2012. The increase in international sales resulted from the acquisitions mentioned above, continued expansion into Asia, and includes the effect of foreign currency translation. The Company experienced increases in export sales of products manufactured in the United States, as well as increased sales from overseas operations. International sales represented 51.2% of consolidated net sales in 2012 compared with 50.2% in 2011.  

Description of Business  

The products and markets of each reportable segment are described below:  

EIG  

EIG applies its specialized market focus and technology to the manufacture of instruments used for testing, monitoring, calibration and display by the process, aerospace, power and industrial markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management practices, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including airframe and aircraft engine sensors; process and analytical instruments; electric power generation, distribution and transmission instruments; and heavy-vehicle instrument panels. It has joint venture operations in China, Japan and Taiwan. 55% of EIG’s 2012 net sales were to customers outside the United States.  

At December 31, 2012, EIG employed approximately 6,700 people, of whom approximately 1,100 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. EIG had 60 operating facilities: 40 in the United States, six each in the United Kingdom and Germany, two in France, and one each in Argentina, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark and Switzerland at December 31, 2012. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico.  

Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 68% of EIG’s 2012 net sales. These include: process analyzers; emission monitors; spectrometers, elemental and surface analysis instruments; level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision pumping systems; force-materials and force-testing instruments; and radiation measurement devices. EIG’s focus is on the process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, pharmaceutical manufacture, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution and semiconductor manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments also are used for precision measurement in a number of other applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultra precision manufacturing and test and measurement applications.  

Crystal Engineering, acquired in December 2012, has high-end pressure measurement technology and manufactures high-end portable digital pressure calibrators and digital test gauges that fit well with AMETEK’s JOFRA® temperature and pressure calibrators. Crystal Engineering strengthens the Company’s technology and product offering in the calibration instruments market.  

Sunpower, acquired in December 2012, designs and develops high reliability cryocoolers and externally heated Stirling cycle engines. Sunpower’s cryogenic cooling technology provides a critical enabling technology for use in the Company’s ORTEC Detective® family of portable radiation identifiers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Micro-Poise, acquired in October 2012, has a large installed equipment base at many of the world’s leading tire manufacturers and is the only industry supplier of all key test and measurement techniques with products that offer best-in-class accuracy, repeatability and cycle times. Micro-Poise broadens the Company’s position in the materials test and measurement equipment market and makes AMETEK a leader in this growing industry segment.  

O’Brien, acquired in January 2012, has products and solutions which are used in critical applications in process industries worldwide. O’Brien’s product lines are both highly differentiated and highly complementary to AMETEK’s process instruments businesses. Combined with the Company’s analytical instrument solutions, AMETEK now can offer its customers a complete solution for most of their process analysis needs.  

Technical Manufacturing Corporation (“TMC”), acquired in December 2011, serves the leading manufacturers of life sciences, photonics and semiconductor equipment with a broad range of custom active piezoelectric vibration cancellation systems, based on their patented active piezo technology. TMC also supplies passive vibration cancellation systems, optical test tables, acoustic isolation hoods and magnetic isolation hoods. TMC is an excellent fit with the Company’s high-end analytical instruments businesses and further broadens AMETEK’s product offerings and expertise in ultra precision manufacturing.  

Reichert Technologies, acquired in October 2011, is a leader and innovator in high-technology instruments used by ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians for vision correction and the screening and diagnosis of eye diseases such as glaucoma and macular degeneration. Reichert Technologies expands AMETEK’s business in the medical market.  

Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Power and industrial instrumentation sales represented 23% of EIG’s 2012 net sales. AMETEK’s power businesses provide analytical instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide variety of industrial settings. EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power transducers and meters, event and transient recorders, annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure, monitor and record variables in the transmission and distribution of electric power.  

EIG designs and manufactures uninterruptible power supply systems for the process and power generation industries. EIG also manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines and for boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process and marine industries worldwide.  

EIG is a leader in programmable AC and DC power sources with growth opportunities in the highly attractive electronic test and measurement equipment market.  

EM Test, acquired in October 2011, is a global leader in equipment used to perform electrical immunity and electromagnetic compatibility testing. EM Test manufactures a full line of conducted electromagnetic compatibility test equipment, including electrical fast transient generators, electrostatic discharge simulators, surge generators, waveform simulators and multifunctional generators. Its products are used in test applications by a wide range of industries to ensure that electronic and electrical products are not susceptible to external electromagnetic disturbances and do not generate electromagnetic disturbances that might affect other products or instruments.  

Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Aerospace instrumentation sales represented 9% of EIG’s 2012 net sales. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its products have a technological and/or cost advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line, used in a wide range of aerospace applications.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Aerospace products include: airborne data systems; turbine engine temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring systems; indicators; displays; fuel and fluid measurement products; sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers. EIG serves all segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter aircraft and commercial airliners, as well as the military market.  

Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s 50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with global commercial aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”). Its customers are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines and other aerospace system integrators. It also serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.  

Customers  

EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 8% of EIG’s 2012 net sales were made to its five largest customers.  

EMG  

EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive electronic devices in aerospace, defense, medical and industrial applications, and advanced technical motor and motion control products used in electronic data storage, medical devices, office and business equipment, factory automation and robotics and other applications. EMG provides high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. EMG blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers and vacuum cleaners. It also operates a global network of aviation MRO facilities. EMG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. 47% of EMG’s 2012 net sales were to customers outside the United States.  

At December 31, 2012, EMG employed approximately 6,800 people, of whom approximately 1,600 were covered by collective bargaining agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). EMG had 65 operating facilities: 37 in the United States, ten in the United Kingdom, three each in China and France, two each in the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy and Mexico and one each in Brazil, Malaysia, Serbia and Taiwan at December 31, 2012.  

Differentiated Businesses  

Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses sales represented 85% of EMG’s net sales in 2012 and are comprised of the technical motors and systems sales and the engineered materials, interconnects and packaging sales.  

Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

Technical motors and systems sales represented 50% of EMG’s 2012 net sales. Technical motors and systems consists of brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers, as well as other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, business machines, computer equipment, mass transit vehicles, medical equipment, power, and industrial applications.  

EMG also produces motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used for thermal management and other applications on a wide variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles.  

8  

Table of Contents 

EMG also serves the commercial and military aerospace third-party MRO market. These services are provided on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Singapore.  

ACI, acquired in December 2012, repairs and overhauls fuel, hydraulic, pneumatic, power generation and heat exchanger components and is one of the few independent aviation repair shops with fuel system repair capabilities. Avtech, acquired in December 2012, is in the repair and maintenance of next generation and legacy avionics and instruments. The acquisitions of ACI and Avtech represent a further expansion of AMETEK’s global aerospace MRO capabilities.  

Dunkermotoren, acquired in May 2012, is a global leader in highly engineered advanced motion control solutions for niche applications. Dunkermotoren expands the Company’s leadership position in niche rotary and linear motion applications.  

Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

Engineered materials, interconnects and packaging sales represented 35% of EMG’s 2012 net sales. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals and headers are specifically designed for harsh environments and highly customized applications. AMETEK also is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in automotive, appliance, medical and surgical, aerospace, telecommunications, marine and general industrial applications.  

Coining Holding Company (“Coining”), acquired in May 2011, is a global leader in custom-shaped preforms, microstampings and wire used for joining electronic circuitry, packaging microelectronics and providing thermal protection and electric conductivity for a wide range of electronic devices. Coining’s products are used in highly engineered applications.  

Avicenna Technology, Inc. (“Avicenna”), acquired in April 2011, provides the Company with additional expertise in producing fine-featured catheter and other medical components for leads, guide wires and custom medical assemblies. Avicenna complements the Company’s medical device market businesses and is an excellent fit with its Technical Services for Electronics (“TSE”) business. The combination of Avicenna and TSE, acquired in June 2010, positions AMETEK as the only medical interconnects provider with integrated capabilities for the catheter, cardiac and neurostimulation markets.  

Floorcare and Specialty Motor Markets and Products  

Floorcare and specialty motor sales represented 15% of EMG’s 2012 net sales. Its specialty motors and motor-blowers are used in a wide range of products, such as floorcare products, ranging from hand-held, canister and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential use; household and personal care appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws, leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.  

Customers  

EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EMG’s 2012 net sales were made to its five largest customers.  

Marketing  

The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the division level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives in marketing its products, as well as direct sales in most of its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as  

9  

Table of Contents 

 well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors both in the United States and in other countries.  

Competition  

In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly competitive. The principal elements of competition for the Company’s products are product technology, distribution, quality, service and price.  

In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks among the leading producers of certain measuring and control instruments. It also is a leader in the U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong and can intensify for certain EIG products. Both of these businesses have several strong competitors. In the process and analytical instruments market, numerous companies in each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary depending on the specific market niche.  

EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a limited number of companies in each of their markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes. In its floorcare and specialty motor businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the U.S. while competition is strong from Asian motor manufacturers that serve both the U.S. and the European floorcare and specialty motor markets where AMETEK has a smaller market position. There is potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers of floorcare products that produce their own motor-blowers. Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.  

Availability of Raw Materials  

The Company’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

The Company’s backlog of unfilled orders by reportable segment was as follows at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The higher backlog at December 31, 2012 was due to higher order levels and the acquired backlog of 2012 acquisitions.  

Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2012, approximately 87% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2013. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Research, Development and Engineering  

The Company is committed to research, development and engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop potential new and improved products or enhance existing products. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $154.8 million, $137.6 million and $112.1 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $5.0 million, $6.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively. These amounts included net Company-funded research and development expenses of $84.9 million, $78.0 million and $56.8 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.  

Environmental Matters  

Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in the section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental Matters” and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its reportable segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to the Company’s overall operations.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2012, the Company employed approximately 13,700 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 2,700 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company has two collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2013, which cover less than 200 employees. The Company expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.  

Working Capital Practices  

The Company does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Customers generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and are responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors