Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Executive Summary 

We are a strategic holding company, providing professional services to clients through multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific requirements should be the central focus in how we structure our business offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and execute against each of our client’s specific marketing requirements. We continually seek to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary companies with strong, entrepreneurial management teams that typically either currently serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base. 

As one of the world’s leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies, we operate in all major markets of the global economy. We have a large and diverse client base. Our largest client represented 3.1% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of our 2009 revenue. Our top 100 clients accounted for 50.4% of our 2009 revenue. Our business is spread across a significant number of industry sectors with no one industry comprising more than 16% of our 2009 revenue from our 1,000 largest clients. Although our revenue is generally balanced between the U.S. and international markets and we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to general economic downturns. 

During the year, a difficult global economy and declining consumer spending and rising unemployment in most major markets and other factors led clients to reduce spending on the services that our agencies provide and therefore negatively impacted our revenue and our results of operations for 2009. In addition, the weakening of most major currencies against the U.S. Dollar commencing late in the third quarter of 2008 contributed to a reduction in our revenue through the third quarter of 2009. However, beginning late in the third quarter of 2009, most major currencies strengthened against the U.S. Dollar, resulting in an increase in our revenue as a result of foreign exchange impacts of approximately 3.9% in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. 

The decline in our 2009 revenue was broad-based across most industries and geographic areas. During previous periods of economic downturn, our industry experienced slower growth rates and industry-wide margin contractions. While business prospects in our industry have stabilized, continued economic uncertainty and reductions in consumer spending may result in further reductions in client spending levels that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have and will continue to closely monitor economic conditions, client spending and other factors, and in response, have taken and will take actions available to us to reduce costs and manage working capital. In the current economic environment, there can be no assurance as to the effects of future economic conditions, client spending patterns, client credit worthiness and other developments on us and whether and to what extent our efforts to respond to them will be effective. 

Certain business trends have had a positive impact on our business and industry. These trends include our clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing interactive technologies and new media outlets. Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total marketing budgets, clients are increasingly requiring greater coordination of marketing activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service providers. We believe these trends have benefitted our business in the past and, over the medium and long term, will continue to provide a competitive advantage to us. 

Given our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators. The key indicators that we review are revenue and operating expenses. 

10 

We analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including growth by major geographic location, growth by major marketing discipline, growth from currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients. 

In recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between domestic and international operations. In 2009, our revenue declined 12.3%, of which 3.4% was related to changes in foreign exchange rates, 0.2% was related to the acquisition of entities, net of entities disposed and 8.7%, was a decrease in organic growth. Almost one-third of the decline in revenue in 2009 that is unrelated to foreign exchange rates and acquisitions net of dispositions, was driven by reduced spending by our auto industry clients and another third from reduced spending by our clients on events and promotions and on advertising for recruitment. The remainder of the decline in 2009 was the result of an overall reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our clients. The total decline in revenue in 2009 compared to 2008, in our four fundamental disciplines was as follows: traditional media advertising, 10.0%; CRM, 12.9%; public relations, 14.8%, and specialty communications, 17.6%. 

We measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories: salary and service costs, and office and general expenses. Salary and service costs are primarily comprised of employee compensation related costs. Office and general expenses are primarily comprised of rent and occupancy costs, technology related costs and depreciation and amortization. Each of our agencies requires service professionals with a skill set that is similar across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a client’s brand and its selling proposition, and the ability to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target audience. The facility requirements of our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. 

Because we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general costs as a percentage of revenue. Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. However, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly to 72.1% in 2009 compared to 71.6% in 2008, principally due to the year-over-year increase of $31.4 million in severance costs that included severance costs recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 of $15.4 million related to the loss in the quarter of a client in the automotive sector. This reflects the actions we took to reduce our workforce and contain compensation related costs in the face of reduced client spending. Office and general expenses not directly related to servicing clients are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. As a result, office and general expenses increased to 16.2% of revenue in 2009 compared to 15.8% in 2008. 

Net income – Omnicom Group Inc. in 2009 decreased $207.3 million or 20.7% to $793.0 million from $1,000.3 million in 2008. The period-over-period decrease in net income – Omnicom Group Inc. is principally due to the factors described above, as well as the increase in pre-tax net interest expense for 2009 of $26.4 million. Diluted net income per common share – Omnicom Group Inc. decreased 19.4% to $2.53 in 2009, as compared to $3.14 in the prior year period. 

11 

Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements 

Critical Accounting Policies 

We have prepared the following summary of our critical accounting policies to assist the reader in better understanding our financial statements and the related discussion in this MD&A. We believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, including our discussion in Note 3 setting forth our accounting policies in greater detail, for a more complete understanding of critical accounting policies discussed below. 

Estimates: Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities including valuation allowances for receivables and deferred tax assets, accruals for incentive compensation and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during a reporting period. A fair value approach is used in testing goodwill for impairment under Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other and when evaluating cost-method investments that consist of ownership interests in non-public companies, to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. 

Acquisitions and Goodwill: We have historically made and expect to continue to make selective acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the price we pay is based on an evaluation of various factors, including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and service offerings, as well as our experience and judgment. 

On January 1, 2009, we adopted revisions to U.S. GAAP included in Codification Topic 805, Business Combinations. These revisions require, among other things that the acquirer record 100% of the goodwill acquired and the associated noncontrolling interest when less than 100% of the target is acquired, that all transaction costs are expensed as incurred and that a liability for contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs), if any, is recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and is remeasured at each reporting period and changes in fair value are recorded in our results of operations. During 2009, we completed four acquisitions of new subsidiaries and made additional investments in companies in which we had an existing minority ownership interest. Total additions to goodwill for these transactions was $76.6 million. In addition, we made or accrued contingent purchase price payments of $133.2 million, which were included in goodwill. 

A summary of our contingent purchase price obligations is set forth in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A. The amount of contingent purchase price obligations is based on future performance. Contingent purchase price obligations, for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 are accrued, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain. 

Our acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the acquisition targets. Accordingly, like most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset value that we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is treated as part of goodwill and, is not valued separately. For each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such identified assets. The majority of the value of the identifiable intangible assets that we acquire is derived from customer relationships, including the related customer contracts. When making the necessary assumptions in valuing these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach and consider comparable market participant measurements. The expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. 

We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the second quarter of the year. We identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy for 

12 

delivering services to clients in their regions. We then concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in the Codification. Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. 

Estimates and Assumptions — Goodwill Impairment Review: We use the following valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our reporting units, including: (1) the income approach which utilizes discounted expected future cash flows, (2) comparative market participant multiples for EBITDA (earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization), and (3) when available, consideration of recent and similar purchase acquisition transactions. 

In the latter part of 2008, contraction in the global economy, a decline in consumer spending, rising unemployment and other factors accelerated the global recession. The global recession reduced clients’ spending on the services that our agencies provide. As a result, our revenue and profit declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year. A significant adverse change in business conditions typically triggers an evaluation of goodwill for impairment prior to the required annual review. Although the decline we experienced in our business on a constant currency basis in the fourth quarter was not significant, given the generally negative economic environment, we updated our impairment analyses for each of our reporting units as of December 31, 2008 and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. 

In applying the income approach, we use estimates to derive the expected discounted cash flows (“DCF”) for each reporting unit, which serve as the basis of our valuation. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth and operating margin, tax rates, capital expenditures, weighted average cost of capital and related discount rates and expected long-term cash flow growth rates. All these estimates and assumptions are affected by conditions specific to our businesses, economic conditions related to the industry in which we operate, as well as, conditions in the global economy. The assumptions which have the most significant affect on our valuations derived using a DCF methodology are: (1) the expected long-term growth rate of our reporting units’ cash flows and (2) the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”). 

The range of assumptions used for the long-term growth rate and WACC in our evaluation as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-term growth rates represent the expected long-term growth rate for the industry in which we operate and the global economy. The average historical revenue growth rate of our reporting units for the past eight years was approximately 10.0% and the average nominal GDP growth of the countries comprising our major markets which account for substantially all of our revenue (“Average Nominal GDP”) was 6.1% over the same period. We considered this history when determining the long-term growth rates to be used in both our interim impairment test at December 31, 2008 and in our annual impairment test at June 30, 2009. We believe marketing expenditures over the long term have a high correlation to GDP. We also believe, based on our historical performance, that our long-term growth rate will exceed Average Nominal GDP growth. 

The risk-adjusted discount rate used in our DCF analysis represents the estimated WACC for each of our reporting units. The WACC is comprised of (1) a risk-free rate of return, (2) a business risk index ascribed to us and to companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units based on a market derived variable that measures the volatility of the share price of equity securities relative to the volatility of the overall equity market, (3) an equity risk premium that is based on the rate of return on equity of publicly traded companies with business characteristics 

13 

comparable to our reporting units, and (4) the current after-tax market rate of return on debt of companies with business characteristics similar to our reporting units, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of our equity and debt. 

Although the risk-free rate of return increased during the first half of 2009, several other components of our WACC decreased during the first half of 2009. These decreases, which more than offset the increase in the risk-free rate and caused our overall assumed WACC to decline, were comprised of a decrease in the business risk index ascribed to us and to companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units; a systemic decrease in the risk premium on equity securities; and a decrease in the cost of corporate debt in the marketplace. The business risk index is based on a market-derived variable that measures the volatility of the share price of equity securities relative to the volatility of the overall equity market. The index for the companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units, as well as the index assigned to us, has been trending downward, except for a significant increase in the index late in 2008. The general decrease in risk premiums on equity securities compared to year-end 2008 is a result of the gradual return of investors to the equity markets in the first half of 2009. The decrease in the cost of corporate debt is a result of the narrowing of credit spreads on corporate debt that was attributable to the overall improvement in the capital markets in the first half of 2009 relative to the latter part of 2008. 

Additionally, when performing our interim impairment test as of December 31, 2008 and estimating the future cash flows of all of our reporting units, we considered the changes in the economic environment that occurred in late 2008 as well as the economic outlook in early 2009. We experienced a reduction in our revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 of 7.0% and had less visibility than we historically have had at that time regarding near-term client spending plans. This led us to estimate, for purposes of performing our interim impairment test, a reduction in our revenue and cash flows for 2009 compared to 2008, for all of our reporting units and zero growth from those reduced levels for 2010 for all of our reporting units. For the purposes of performing our interim impairment test, we estimated that growth would return in 2011 at levels below our historical growth rates for an interim four-year period. 

When performing our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2009 and estimating the future cash flows of all of our reporting units, we also considered the changes in the economic environment that occurred in late 2008 as well as the economic outlook in mid-year 2009. Although we experienced a reduction in our revenue in the first half of 2009 of 15.8%, of which 7.3% was due to foreign exchange movements, our visibility regarding near-term client-spending plans improved compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. This led us to estimate for an interim five-year period, for purposes of performing our annual impairment test, a large reduction in our revenues and cash flows for the second half of 2009 compared to 2008, for all of our reporting units and 2% growth from those reduced levels for 2010 for all of our reporting units, with growth slowly increasing in subsequent years, but at levels well below our historical growth rates. 

For both our interim test as of December 31, 2008 and our annual test as of June 30, 2009, beginning in 2014 and 2015, respectively, we used an estimated long-term growth rate of 4.5% for all of our reporting units. 

Sensitivity Analysis and Conclusion — Goodwill Impairment Review: Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements that are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. 

Our reporting units do vary in size with respect to revenue and the amount of debt allocated to them. These differences drive the variations in fair value among our reporting units. In addition, these differences as well as differences in book value, including goodwill, cause the variations in the amount by which fair value exceeds book value among the reporting units. The reporting unit goodwill balances and debt vary by reporting unit primarily because our three legacy agency networks were acquired at the formation of Omnicom and were accounted for as a pooling of interest that did not result in any additional debt or goodwill being recorded. The remaining two agency networks, including Reporting Unit 5, were built through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions that were accounted for as purchase transactions and as a result, they have a relatively higher amount of goodwill and debt. 

14 

 The decline in the fair value of our reporting units that would need to occur in order to fail step one of our goodwill impairment test (the “Threshold”) is as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 At December 31, 2008, Reporting Unit 5 had the highest total revenue, operating profit and enterprise value of our five reporting units, and its fair value (net of debt) approximated the average of the total fair value of all of our reporting units. However, because it had the highest book value and debt relative to the other reporting units, it had the lowest Threshold as of December 31, 2008. The long-term growth rate needed to achieve our future cash flow projections for Reporting Unit 5 to avoid failing step one of our December 31, 2008 interim goodwill impairment test and thus potentially having a goodwill impairment charge was approximately 3.0%. This growth rate would represent a 30% reduction in the long-term growth rate of 4.5% that we used in performing our interim impairment test at December 31, 2008. We concluded that the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded their respective book values and therefore, our goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2008, the date of our interim impairment test. 

 Based on the analysis described above, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of June 30, 2009, because the fair values of each of our reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective net book values. Notwithstanding our belief that the assumptions we used in our impairment testing for our WACC and long-term growth rate are reasonable, we performed a sensitivity analysis for each of our reporting units. The results of this sensitivity analysis for our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2009 revealed that if our WACC was increased by 1%, and/or our long-term growth rate was decreased by 1%, the fair value of each of our reporting units would continue to be substantially in excess of their respective net book values and pass step one of the impairment test. 

 We plan to continue to perform our impairment test at the end of the second quarter of each year unless certain events or circumstances trigger the need for an interim evaluation for impairment. The estimates we use in testing our goodwill for impairment do not constitute forecasts or projections of future results of operations, but rather are estimates and assumptions based on historical results and assessments of macroeconomic factors affecting our reporting units. We believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, but they are subject to change from period to period. Actual results of operations and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our discounted cash flow valuation and it is possible that differences could be material. A change in the estimates we use could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units from the amounts derived as of our latest valuation and could cause us to fail step one of our goodwill impairment test if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a non-cash impairment charge and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

 Subsequent to our annual evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the second quarter of 2009, there were no events or circumstances that triggered the need for an interim evaluation for impairment. In addition, our actual results for revenue growth and cash flows for 2009 have approximated the assumptions used in our testing as of June 30, 2009. Further, those assumptions for revenue growth and cash flows for all reporting units for 2010 are less than or equal to our most current forecast for 2010 revenue growth and cash flows as of December 31, 2009. In addition, the comparable market participant multiples of EBITDA we used in our June 30, 2009 valuation have improved as of December 31, 2009. Based on these factors, we did not perform an interim impairment evaluation on the carrying value of our goodwill at December 31, 2009. 

 Additional information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 3 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Revenue Recognition: We recognize revenue in accordance with Codification Topic 605, Revenue Recognition and applicable SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process and when collection is reasonably assured. We 

 15 

record revenue net of sales tax, use tax and value added tax. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements. 

These principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client arrangements in each of our service disciplines – traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. 

More specifically, our policy requires the following key elements to be satisfied prior to recognizing revenue: persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist; the sales price must be fixed or determinable; delivery, performance and acceptance must be in accordance with the client arrangement; and collection is reasonably assured. 

Because the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client arrangements in each of our four disciplines. 

In the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained, when the fee or commission is earned. Although we may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs incurred with external suppliers are excluded from our revenue. In accordance with certain arrangements, we act as principal and we contract directly with suppliers for media payments and third-party production costs and are responsible for payment. In connection with these arrangements, revenue is recorded at the gross amount billed since revenue has been earned for the sale of goods or services. 

A small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when the specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is determined by our clients. Additional information about our revenue recognition appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Employee Share-Based Compensation: A fair value approach is used in determining the award value of share-based employee compensation in accordance with Codification Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation. We utilize the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of option awards. This valuation model uses several assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Pre-tax share-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $78.6 million, $59.3 million and $68.7 million, respectively. Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In addition to those discussed previously, additional information regarding new accounting guidance can also be found in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements also includes a summary of our significant accounting policies. 

16 

Financial Results from Operations — 2009 Compared with 2008 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following analysis gives further details and insight into our 2009 financial performance. 

Fourth Quarter 2009: In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a net gain of $32.4 million related to transactions with affiliated companies. The net gain was comprised of a $41.3 million gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value, in accordance with Codification Topic 805, of our existing ownership interest in an affiliated company in which we acquired a majority stake in December 2009 and was partially offset by impairment charges of $8.9 million principally related to the loss on the sale of an investment in an affiliated company in January 2010. Also in the fourth quarter of 2009, we took a charge of $33.2 million in connection with the loss in the quarter of a significant client in the automotive sector, primarily for severance and lease termination costs. Salary and service costs for 2009 reflect an increase in severance costs of $15.4 million related to the client loss. Office and general expenses for 2009 reflect a decrease of $14.6 million related to the remeasurement gain of $41.3 million, offset by lease termination costs of $17.8 million related to the client loss and the impairment charges of $8.9 million on investments in affiliated companies. 

Revenue: Our 2009 revenue decreased 12.3% to $11,720.7 million from $13,359.9 million in 2008. The effect of foreign exchange impacts decreased revenue by $454.3 million, acquisitions net of dispositions, decreased revenue by $30.8 million and organic growth decreased revenue by $1,154.1 million. The components of total 2009 revenue changes in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): 

17 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue (in this case $12,175.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case $11,720.7 million less $12,175.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year).  

The acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is the revenue of any business included in the prior period reported revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.  

The organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.  

The percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component (in this case $13,359.9 million for the Total column in the table for the year).  

The components of 2009 revenue and revenue change for the full year in our primary geographic markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the full year 2009, foreign exchange impacts decreased our revenue by $454.3 million. Beginning late in the third quarter of 2008 and continuing through the third quarter of 2009, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most other major currencies, such as the British Pound, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real and Australian Dollar. 

For the fourth quarter of 2009, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $130.5 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound, Euro, Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar, and Korean Won. 

Assuming exchange rates at February 15, 2010 remain unchanged, we expect foreign exchange impacts to increase our full year 2010 revenue by less than 1.0%. 

Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2009 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 3.1% and 2.8% of our 

18 

revenue in 2009 and 2008, respectively. No other client represented more than 2.5% of revenue in 2009 or more than 2.1% of revenue in 2008. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 17.8% and 50.4% of our 2009 revenue, respectively, and 16.7% and 47.4% of our 2008 revenue, respectively. 

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive marketing, direct marketing, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, nonprofit marketing, organizational communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four disciplines as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Expenses: Our 2009 operating expenses decreased $1,324.7 million, or 11.4%, to $10,345.8 million from $11,670.5 million in 2008, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salary and services costs are comprised of salary and related costs and direct service costs. Salary and service costs decreased $1,109.6 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This reflects actions we took to reduce our workforce and contain compensation related costs in the face of reduced client spending. Salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly to 72.1% in 2009 compared to 71.6% in 2008, principally due to the year-over-year increase in severance costs of $31.4 million that included severance costs recorded in the fourth quarter of $15.4 million related to the loss in the quarter of a client in the automotive sector. 

Office and general expenses represented 18.3% and 18.1% of our operating expenses in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Office and general expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 0.4% in 2009 compared to 2008. These costs were comprised of office and equipment rents, technology costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees and other overhead expenses, and were less directly linked to changes in our revenue. Excluding the net impact of the remeasurement gain, lease termination costs and 

19 

impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2009 totaling $14.6 million, office and general expenses decreased $200.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease was primarily a result of our cost containment activities. 

Net Interest Expense: Our net interest expense increased to $100.7 million in 2009, as compared to $74.3 million in 2008. Our gross interest expense decreased by $2.4 million to $122.2 million. The decrease in gross interest expense was primarily due to lower interest rates and lower borrowings under our credit facility and commercial paper issuances that substantially offset the increased interest resulting from our 6.25% Senior Notes issued on July 1, 2009. Our gross interest income decreased $28.8 million to $21.5 million in 2009. This decrease was attributable to lower investment rates and foreign exchange impacts on the interest earned on our foreign cash balances. 

See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related matters. 

Income Taxes: Our 2009 consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.0%, which is slightly higher than our 2008 rate of 33.6%. The increase in our effective tax rate was caused by higher foreign taxes, including a tax expense incurred in 2009 of $12.9 million due to the resolution of an uncertain tax position for a foreign subsidiary. This was substantially offset by a reduction in income tax expense in 2009 of $11.0 million from the recognition of foreign income tax credits. 

On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was signed into law. The ARRA provides an election where qualifying cancellation of indebtedness income can be deferred and included in taxable income ratably over the five taxable years beginning in 2014 and ending in 2018. During the first quarter of 2009, we retired $295.2 million of our 2031 Notes. The retirement of the 2031 Notes resulted in a tax liability of approximately $73 million. During the third quarter of 2009, we retired $474.3 million of our 2032 Notes. The retirement of the 2032 Notes resulted in a tax liability of approximately $105 million. 

In the first quarter of 2009, $841.2 million of our 2031 Notes were put back to us for purchase at par and $295.2 million of the 2031 Notes were repurchased and retired. A partnership that we controlled purchased the remaining $546.0 million of the 2031 Notes that were put. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the partnership was liquidated and the $546.0 million of our 2031 Notes held by the partnership were permanently retired. The retirement of these 2031 Notes resulted in a tax liability of approximately $150 million. 

These liabilities, which were previously recorded, are included in our balance sheet in our deferred tax liabilities. In accordance with ARRA, we expect to pay them during the deferral period beginning in 2014 and through 2018. 

Net Income Per Common Share – Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, our net income – Omnicom Group Inc. in 2009 decreased $207.3 million, or 20.7%, to $793.0 million from $1,000.3 million in 2008. Diluted net income per common share – Omnicom Group Inc. decreased 19.4% to $2.53 in 2009, as compared to $3.14 in the prior year. This period-over-period decrease was smaller than the decrease in net income – Omnicom Group Inc. due to the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. 

20 

Financial Results from Operations — 2008 Compared with 2007 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following analysis gives further details and insight into our 2008 financial performance. 

Revenue: Our 2008 revenue increased 5.2% to $13,359.9 million from $12,694.0 million in 2007. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased revenue by $163.9 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased 2008 revenue by $128.1 million and organic growth increased revenue by $373.9 million. The components of total 2008 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our fourth quarter 2008 revenue decreased 7.0% to $3,371.3 million from $3,626.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The effect of foreign exchange impacts decreased revenue by $210.7 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased fourth quarter 2008 revenue by $39.2 million and organic growth decreased revenue by $83.2 million. The components of total fourth quarter 2008 revenue in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): 

21 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During the second half of 2008, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our revenue compared to the second half of 2007. Client spending began to contract in the last half of 2008 and the contraction accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decline was broad-based across all industry segments and geographic areas. 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue (in this case $13,196.0 million and $3,582.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case $13,359.9 million less $13,196.0 million and $3,371.3 million less $3,582.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively).  

The acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is the revenue of any business included in the prior period reported revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.  

The organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.  

The percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component (in this case $12,694.0 million and $3,626.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively).   

The components of 2008 revenue and revenue growth for the full year in our primary geographic markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the full year 2008, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $163.9 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening, especially during the first half of the year, of the Euro, Japanese Yen and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset primarily by the decline of the British Pound and Korean Won against the U.S. Dollar. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008 and especially during the last four months of the year, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most other major currencies. However, the foreign exchange impact for the year was still positive. 

Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2008 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden 

22 

our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 2.8% of our revenue in both 2008 and 2007. No other client represented more than 2.1% of revenue in 2008 or more than 2.4% of revenue in 2007. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 16.7% and 47.4% of our 2008 revenue, respectively, and 16.7% and 46.2% of our 2007 revenue, respectively. 

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive marketing, direct marketing, directory advertising, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, organizational communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four disciplines as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Expenses: Our 2008 operating expenses increased $635.6 million, or 5.8%, to $11,670.5 million from $11,034.9 million in 2007, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Because we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of our operating expenses. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service costs were 81.9% in 2008 and 81.6% in 2007. These costs are comprised of salary and related costs and direct service costs. Salary and service costs accounted for $552.0 million of the $635.6 million increase in total operating expenses. During the first nine months of 2008, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly compared to the same period in 2007. However, given the reduction of revenue that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, we took actions to reduce incentive compensation and our discretionary spending. As a result of taking these actions the ratio of salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue for the full year 2008 would have been similar to that of 2007; however, we reduced our work force in the fourth quarter of 2008 in anticipation of reductions in client spending in 2009 and we incurred expenses related to severance benefits that were $51 million greater than similar costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007. As a result of these incremental severance costs, 

23 

salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 71.6% for the full year of 2008 compared to 71.0% in 2007. 

Office and general expenses represented 18.1% and 18.4% of our operating expenses in 2008 and 2007, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses decreased marginally in 2008 from 16.0% to 15.8%. These costs are less directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more or less than the rate of increase in our revenues. 

Net Interest Expense: Our net interest expense increased slightly by $0.3 million in 2008 to $74.3 million, as compared to $74.0 million in 2007. Our gross interest expense increased by $17.7 million to $124.6 million. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense on our Euro and Yen denominated swaps, which were terminated in the second half of 2008, and additional interest expense due to an increase in our average debt outstanding, partially offset by interest expense savings in 2008 associated with a decrease in the amortization of supplemental interest payments that were made on our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2032 and 2038 (“2032 Notes” and “2038 Notes”) in prior periods. The total increase in gross interest expense was almost entirely offset by increased interest income earned on our foreign cash balances. 

In February 2009, we borrowed $814.4 million under our credit facility to fund the purchase of our 2031 Notes by us and a partnership we controlled. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at either a floating base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin. 

Income Taxes: Our 2008 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.6%, which was down slightly from our 2007 rate of 33.9%, primarily due to lower rates in various foreign jurisdictions. 

Income Per Common Share – Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, our net income – Omnicom Group Inc. in 2008 increased $24.6 million, or 2.5%, to $1,000.3 million from $975.7 million in 2007. Diluted earnings per share – Omnicom Group Inc. increased 7.2% to $3.14 in 2008, as compared to $2.93 in the prior year for the reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares outstanding for the year. The reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding was the result of our purchases throughout 2007 and the first eight months of 2008 of treasury shares, net of shares issued upon option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. 

24 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash Sources and Requirements, Including Contractual Obligations 

Historically, substantially all of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. Our principal non-discretionary funding requirement is our working capital. In addition, as discussed below, we have contractual obligations related to our senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business operations (primarily related to lease obligations), as well as certain contingent acquisition obligations related to acquisitions made in prior years. 

Our principal discretionary cash requirements include dividend payments to our shareholders, payments for new strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures and repurchases of our common stock. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow, cash on hand and short-term investments. In addition, in any given year, depending on the level of discretionary activity, we may use other sources of available funding, such as the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings under our credit facility to finance these activities. 

We have a seasonal working capital cycle. Working capital requirements are lowest at year-end. The fluctuation in working capital requirements between the lowest and highest points during the course of the year can be more than $1.5 billion. This cycle occurs because our businesses incur costs on behalf of our clients, including when we place media and incur production costs. We generally require collection from our clients prior to our payment for the media and production cost obligations. During the year, we manage liquidity through our credit facilities, as discussed below under “Cash Management.” At December 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $489.7 million from December 31, 2008. The components of the increase in 2009 are summarized below (dollars in millions): 

Sources [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Principal Cash Sources and Principal Discretionary Cash Uses amounts presented above are non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and certain other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions, and borrowings under our credit facility used to fund these working capital changes. This presentation reflects the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial statements. 

25 

Cash Management 

We manage our cash and liquidity centrally through our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries that manage our treasury centers in North America, Europe and Asia. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funding borrow funds from their regional treasury center. The treasury centers then aggregate the net position. The net position is either invested with or borrowed from third party providers. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the ability to access local currency lines of credit, our $2.5 billion credit facility, or depending on market conditions at the time, issue up to $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper. This enables us to more efficiently manage our debt balances and efficiently utilize our cash, as well as better manage our exposure to foreign exchange. 

Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $489.7 million and our short-term investments decreased by $7.3 million from the prior year. Short-term investments include investments of our excess cash which we expect to convert into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. The majority of our short-term investments represent time deposits that mature in 2010. 

We consider the unrepatriated cumulative earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. In managing our day-to-day liquidity and our long-term capital structure, we do not rely on the unrepatriated earnings as a source of funds. We have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes on these undistributed foreign earnings. Determination of the amount of this tax liability is based on the rate differential of the U.S. income taxes in excess of the foreign taxes on any remittances of the undistributed earnings and is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. Changes in tax rules may affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In May 2009, several proposals to revise U.S. federal tax laws were announced, including a proposal to reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, to defer tax deductions allocable to non-U.S. earnings until such earnings are repatriated, and to change the calculation of the U.S. foreign tax credit. It is unclear whether these proposed tax changes will be enacted, or if enacted, what the scope of the changes will be. Depending on their content, such changes could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. 

We manage our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and short-term investments, centrally through our treasury centers as discussed above. Our net debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 decreased by $1,297.9 million as compared to the prior year-end, as summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this presentation, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measure, is meaningful for understanding our liquidity and it reflects one of the key metrics used by us to assess our cash management. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. 

26 

Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants 

We maintain a credit facility with a consortium of banks providing borrowing capacity of up to $2.5 billion as described in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. Our credit facility provides back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us, as well as support for our commercial paper issuances. Depending on market conditions at the time, we typically fund our daily borrowing needs by issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our short-term uncommitted lines of credit, or borrowing on our credit facility. During 2009, we issued and redeemed $12.7 billion of commercial paper and we borrowed and repaid $21.6 billion under the credit facility. The average term of the commercial paper was 5.2 days and the average borrowing under the credit facility was 12.4 days. At December 31, 2009, we had no commercial paper or borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. At December 31, 2009, we had short-term borrowings of $19.3 million outstanding, which are comprised of bank overdrafts by our international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to the subsidiaries’ bank agreements. 

Our credit facility contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness as defined in the agreements. These financial covenants limit the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (under our credit agreement, EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with these covenants, as our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.4 times and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 13.2 times. In addition, our credit facility does not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends. 

Standard and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our short-term debt credit ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding 5.90% Senior Notes, 6.25% Senior Notes, convertible notes and bank credit facilities do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be downgraded. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facilities, however, will increase if our long-term debt credit rating is lowered. 

Our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries Omnicom Capital Inc. (“OCI”) and Omnicom Finance Inc. (“OFI”) provide funding for our operations by incurring debt and lending the proceeds to our operating subsidiaries. OCI and OFI’s assets consist of intercompany loans made to our operating subsidiaries and the related interest receivable. OCI and OFI are co-issuers and co-obligors of our 5.90% Senior Notes, 6.25% Senior Notes and convertible notes. There are no restrictions in the applicable indentures on the ability of OCI, OFI or us to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. The 5.90% Senior Notes, 6.25% Senior Notes and convertible notes are a joint and several liability of us, OCI and OFI, and we unconditionally guarantee the obligations of OCI and OFI with respect to the 5.90% Senior Notes, 6.25% Senior Notes and convertible notes. 

On July 1, 2009, we issued $500 million principal amount of 6.25% Senior Notes due July 15, 2019. The proceeds from the issuance before deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses were $496.7 million. The 6.25% Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and the co-issuers. 

At December 31, 2009, we had a total of $726.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding, consisting of $5.8 million 2031 Notes, $252.7 million 2032 Notes and $467.5 million of the 2033 Notes and the 2038 Notes combined. 

The holders of our 2032 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in August of each year. The holders of our 2033 Notes and our 2038 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value on June 15, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually thereafter through June 15, 2037. The 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are convertible, at specified ratios, only upon the occurrence of certain events, including: if our common shares trade above certain levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions or, in the case of the 2032 Notes, if our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 and 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of 

27 

shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes. For additional information about the terms of these notes, see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In February 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2031 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2031 Notes were put back to us for repayment. 

In July 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2032 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2032 Notes were put back to us for repayment. 

In February 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $9.00 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 4, 2008 who did not put their notes back to us. None of the 2031 Notes were put back to us and on February 8, 2008 noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million that was amortized ratably over a 12-month period to February 2009. 

In June 2008, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes, and none of our 2033 Notes or 2038 Notes were put back to us for repurchase. 

In July 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $25.00 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of July 31, 2008 and we amended the 2032 Notes to eliminate Omnicom’s right to redeem the 2032 Notes prior to August 2, 2010, provided that the noteholders delivered a valid consent to the amendment, waived their rights to contingent cash interest payable from October 31, 2008 through and including August 1, 2010, and agreed not to put their notes back to us. Substantially all of the noteholders consented to the amendments and all of the 2032 Notes remained outstanding. Noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment totaling $18.1 million that was amortized ratably over a twelve month the period to July 2009. 

On February 12, 2009, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $50.00 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes. Approximately $295 million of our 2031 Notes were retired and a partnership that financed the purchase of $546.0 million of our 2031 Notes on our behalf was paid a supplemental interest payment of $27.3 million and the other noteholders who did not put their notes were paid a supplemental interest payment of $0.3 million. The loan made to the partnership bore interest at 3.35% per annum. On consolidation, interest income from the loan to the partnership partly offsets interest expense from the amortization of the supplemental interest payment made to the partnership resulting in net interest expense of $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

In December 2009, the partnership was liquidated and the remaining $546.0 million of our 2031 Notes held by the partnership were permanently retired. 

On August 6, 2009, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million to holders of our 2032 Notes who did not put their notes back to us. A total of $474.3 million of our 2032 Notes were put back to us for repurchase and a total of $252.7 million of our 2032 Notes remain outstanding. The supplemental interest payment is being amortized ratably over a twelve-month period to August 2010. 

As a result of the above, we reduced our total debt by $815.5 million during 2009. This was funded out of our cash flow from operations. Looking forward to 2010, we expect to continue to use our cash flow from operations to pay dividends and make capital expenditures, as well as to purchase treasury shares and fund acquisitions. 

28 

Our outstanding debt and amounts available under these facilities at December 31, 2009 were as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Additional information about our indebtedness is included in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Credit Markets and Availability of Credit 

In light of the uncertainty of future economic conditions, we continue to seek to take actions available to us to respond to changing economic conditions and we will continue to actively manage our discretionary expenditures. From August 2008 through December 31, 2009, we did not repurchase any significant amount of our common stock. Beginning in 2010, we plan to resume repurchases of our common stock. We will continue to monitor and manage the level of credit made available to our clients. We believe that these actions, in addition to the availability of our $2.5 billion credit facility, are sufficient to fund our near-term working capital needs and our discretionary spending. For additional information about our credit facility, see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

The next date on which holders of the 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is June 2010. The next date on which holders of the 2032 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is July 2010. If our convertible notes are put back to us, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any put. Although such borrowings would reduce the amount available under our credit facility to fund our cash requirements, we believe that we have sufficient capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after the put event. 

In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we have historically been a participant in the commercial paper market. Disruptions in the credit markets beginning in the third quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first part of 2009 led to periods of illiquidity in the commercial paper market and higher credit spreads. During this period, to mitigate these conditions and to fund our day-to-day liquidity, we used our uncommitted lines of credit and borrowed under our credit facility. In the second half of 2009, we resumed commercial paper issuances. 

We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on us of any further disruptions in the credit markets. 

29 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments 

We enter into numerous contractual and commercial undertakings in the normal course of our business. The following table summarizes information about certain of our obligations at December 31, 2009 and should be read together with Note 6 (Debt), Note 11 (Income Taxes), Note 15 (Leases), Note 18 (Fair Value) and Note 19 (Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities) to our consolidated financial statements (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the period(s) presented based on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing authorities. 

As more fully described above under the heading “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants,” the holders of the convertible notes at December 31, 2009 included in the table above have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate face amount of the notes then outstanding for par value at certain dates in the future. If these rights were exercised at the earliest possible future date, as set forth in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, $726.0 million of convertible notes could be due in less than one year. The next date on which holders of our 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is June 2010 and the next date holders of our 2032 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is July 2010. We have classified our convertible notes as long-term in our consolidated balance sheet because our credit facility does not expire until June 2011 and it is our intention to fund any put with our credit facility. 

In many of our businesses we purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. We enter into contractual commitments with media providers on behalf of our clients at levels that substantially exceed our revenue in connection with the services we provide. These commitments are included in our accounts payable balance when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligations, then we are not liable to the media providers under the legal theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ credit worthiness and, in many cases, requiring credit insurance or payment in advance. Further, in cases where we become committed to the media and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. We have not experienced a material loss related to purchases of media on behalf of our clients. However, this risk could increase in a significant economic downturn. 

Pension Plan Funding: We maintain two U.S. and twenty-seven non-U.S. noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. The U.S. plans have been closed to new participants. The benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2009 was $120.9 million. The fair value of assets for these plans at December 31, 2009 was $52.4 million. During 2009, we contributed $6.4 million to our defined benefit pension plans. We do not expect our 2010 contributions to increase significantly from 2009. 

Contingent Acquisition Obligations: Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent purchase price obligations, often referred to as earn-outs. We utilize contingent purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired entity during the 

30 

post-acquisition transition period. These payments are not contingent upon future employment. At December 31, 2009, the amount of future contingent purchase price payments that we would be required to pay for acquisitions completed prior to our adoption on January 1, 2009, of revisions to U.S. GAAP included in Codification Topic 805, Business Combinations, assuming that the businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, is approximately $219 million. The ultimate amounts payable cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty because they are dependent upon future results of operations of the subject businesses and are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance with U.S. GAAP prior to the revision to January 1, 2009, we have not recorded a liability for these items in our consolidated balance sheets since the definitive amount was not determinable or distributable prior to January 1, 2009. Actual results can differ from these estimates and the actual amounts that we pay are likely to be different from these estimates. Our obligations change from period to period primarily as a result of payments made during the current period, changes in the acquired entities’ performance and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These differences could be significant. The contingent purchase price obligations as of December 31, 2009, calculated assuming that the acquired businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, are as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In connection with the adoption of the revisions included in Codification Topic 805 effective January 1, 2009, contingent purchase price obligations related to acquisitions completed subsequent to December 31, 2008 are recorded as liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheet and are remeasured at each reporting period and changes in fair value are recorded in our results of operations. These liabilities are not included in the above amounts. 

31 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk