Item 1A.  Risk Factors   

Global economic conditions could adversely impact our business and results of operations and financial position. 

Contraction in the global economy led to reductions in advertising, marketing and corporate communications services spending by both our U.S. and international clients and was a significant factor to the year-over-year decrease in our revenue in 2009. The decline was broad-based across most industries and geographic areas. Despite recent economic improvement, a future economic downturn and a further reduction in consumer spending could result in further reduction in client spending levels that could adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial position. 

Renewed turmoil in the credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 

Renewed turmoil in the credit markets or a contraction in the availability of credit similar to the conditions experienced beginning in the third quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009 would make it more difficult for businesses to meet their capital requirements and could lead clients to change their financial relationship with their vendors, including us. If that were to occur, we could require additional capital to fund the changes in our day-today working capital requirements. There is no assurance that such additional financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 

Additionally, during the recent credit crisis, several banks in the bank syndicate that supports our $2.5 billion credit facility received capital infusions from their central governments. In the event that a bank in our syndicate were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment under our credit facility or cease to exist and there was no successor entity, the credit facility provides that the remaining banks in the syndicate would only be required to fund advances requested under the credit facility on a pro rata basis up to their total commitment. As a result, the portion of the credit facility provided by the defaulting bank would not be available to us and we could require additional capital. Further, our $2.5 billion credit facility expires in June 2011. We expect to replace this facility with similar financing. There is no assurance that such financing will be available on comparable terms, if at all. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 

In a period of severe economic downturn, the risk of a material loss related to purchases of media on behalf of our clients could significantly increase. 

In many of our businesses we purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. We enter into contractual commitments with media providers on behalf of our clients at levels that substantially exceed our revenue in connection with the services we provide. These commitments are included in our accounts payable balance when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligations then we are not liable to the media providers under the legal theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ credit worthiness and, in many 

3 

cases, requiring credit insurance or payment in advance. Further, in cases where we become committed to the media and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. This risk could significantly increase in periods of severe economic downturn. Such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

A reduction in client spending and a slowdown in client payments could materially adversely affect our working capital. 

Working capital is a source of cash as we have historically run a negative working capital cycle during the year. This cycle occurs because our businesses incur costs on behalf of our clients, including when we place media and incur production costs. We generally require collection from our clients prior to our payment for the media and production cost obligations. 

The global economic recession has caused and could continue to cause a reduction of the volume of client spending or a delay in the time our clients take to pay us which could negatively affect our working capital. Consequently, we could need to obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that such additional financing would be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such circumstances could therefore materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 

Companies periodically review and change their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business models and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or retain key clients, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected. 

The markets in which we participate are highly competitive. Key competitive considerations for retaining existing business and winning new business include our ability to develop marketing solutions that meet client needs, the quality and effectiveness of the services we offer, and our ability to efficiently serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis. While many of our client relationships are long-standing, clients put their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. To the extent that we are not able to remain competitive or retain key clients, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 

The success of our acquiring and retaining clients depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of interest arising out of other client relationships and retention of key personnel. 

Our ability to retain existing clients and to attract new clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients’ perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising out of other client relationships. If we are unable to maintain multiple agencies to manage multiple client relationships and avoid potential conflicts of interests, our business, results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. 

In addition, we may lose or fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our employees are our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to provide our services in the manner our customers have come to expect may be adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

We received approximately 50.4% of our revenue from our 100 largest clients in 2009, and the loss of several of these clients could adversely impact our prospects, business and results of operations and financial position. 

Our clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel projects at any time on short notice for any reason. It is possible that our clients could reduce spending in comparison with historical patterns, or they could reduce future spending. A significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our largest clients, or the loss of several of our largest clients, if not replaced by new client accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

4 

Government regulations and consumer advocates may limit the scope of the content of our services, which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Government agencies and consumer groups directly or indirectly affect or attempt to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services, through regulation or other governmental action. Any such limitation on the scope of the content of our services could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, there has been an increasing tendency on the part of businesses to resort to the judicial system to challenge advertising practices. Such claims by businesses or governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position in the future. 

Government or legislative action may limit the tax deductibility of advertising expenditures by certain industries or for certain products and services. These actions would cause our clients affected by such actions to reduce their spending on our services which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

We are a global service business and face certain risks of doing business abroad, including political instability and foreign exchange controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We face the risks normally associated with global services businesses. The operational and financial performance of our businesses are typically tied to overall economic and regional market conditions, competition for client assignments and talented staff, new business wins and losses and the risks associated with extensive international operations. There are risks of doing business abroad, including those of political instability and foreign exchange controls, which do not affect domestic-focused firms. These risks could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial position. For financial information on our operations by geographic area, see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

We are exposed to risks from operating in developing countries. 

We conduct business in numerous developing countries around the world. The risks associated with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices, nationalization, social, political and economic instability and currency repatriation restrictions, among other risks. In addition, commercial laws in many of these countries can be vague, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. If we are deemed not to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where we conduct business, our prospects, business, financial position and results of operations in those countries could be harmed, which could then have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. 

Holders of our convertible notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to $726 million, in whole or in part, at specified dates in the future. 

In June 2010, our 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes aggregating $467.5 million may be put back to us for repurchase and in July 2010, $252.7 million of our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for repurchase. If we are required to satisfy one or more puts to repurchase our convertible notes, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund the puts. We also believe that we will still have capacity under our existing credit commitments sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after any put event. However, in the event that our existing credit commitments or our cash flow from operations were to decrease, we might need to seek additional funding alternatives. There is no assurance that such additional financing would be available on comparable terms, if at all. 

Downgrades of our debt credit ratings could adversely affect us. 

Standard and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our short-term debt ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding senior notes, convertible notes and existing bank credit facility do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payment upon a downgrade. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facility, however, would increase if our long-term debt credit rating is downgraded. Additionally, our access 

5 

to the capital markets could be adversely affected by adverse changes to the short- or long-term debt credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies. Furthermore, the 2032 Notes, 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes are convertible at specified ratios if, in the case of the 2032 Notes, our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes. 

We may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions. 

We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses we believe may be complementary to our businesses and client needs. As part of the review we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we might not realize the intended advantages of any given acquisition. If we fail to identify certain material risks from one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 

Goodwill may become impaired. 

In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”), we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, at least annually at the end of the second quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, as discussed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in our financial statements included in this report, that our goodwill is not impaired, future events could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired. Any resulting non-cash impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 

We could be affected by future laws or regulations enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions. 

Although our companies may not be directly affected by current cap and trade laws and current requirements to reduce emissions, we could be in the future. However, we could also be affected indirectly by increased prices for goods or services provided to us by companies that are directly affected by these laws and regulations and pass their increased costs through to their customers. Additionally, to comply with potential future changes in environmental laws and regulations, we may need to incur additional costs. At this time, we cannot estimate what impact such costs may have on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

 Item 2.  Properties