Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Accounting Period

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. Each of the fiscal years ended December 30, 2012, January 1, 2012 and January 2, 2011 included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ending December 29, 2013 will also include 52 weeks.

Overview of Fiscal Year 2012 

During fiscal year 2012, we continued to see good performance from acquisitions, investments in our ongoing technology and sales and marketing initiatives. Our overall revenue in fiscal year 2012 increased $196.7 million, or 10%, as compared to fiscal year 2011, reflecting an increase of $159.7 million, or 18%, in our Human Health segment revenue and an increase of $37.0 million, or 4%, in our Environmental Health segment revenue. The increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2012 was due to growth in the research market, including the addition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. ("Caliper"), as well as growth generated from both our screening and our medical imaging businesses within the diagnostics market. The increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2012 was due to growth in our informatics offerings within the laboratory services market and growth from our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products, partially offset by decreased demand for our applications in the industrial markets.

In our Human Health segment during fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011, we experienced growth in the research market due to continued demand for our in-vivo imaging systems with the addition of Caliper imaging systems, as well as increased demand for our JANUS® automation tools and our Operetta® cellular imaging systems. The growth in the research market was partially offset by reduced sales to pharmaceutical companies resulting from reduced research and development spending, as well as a decline in demand for our suite of radioactive reagents, particularly in Europe and Japan. We also experienced growth in the diagnostics market as birth rates in the United States continue to stabilize and from continued expansion of our prenatal, newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside the United States, particularly in emerging markets such as China. In our medical imaging business, we had continued growth from our traditional diagnostic imaging offerings, as well as increased demand for our complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (“CMOS”) imaging technology, particularly in the fields of mammography, dental and orthopedics. As the rising cost of healthcare continues to be one of the critical issues facing our customers, we anticipate that the benefits of providing earlier detection of disease, which can result in savings of long-term health care costs as well as creating better outcomes for patients, are increasingly valued and we expect to see continued growth in these markets.

In our Environmental Health segment, our laboratory services business offers services designed to enable our customers to increase efficiencies and production time, while reducing maintenance costs, all of which continue to be critical for our customers. During fiscal year 2012, we had increased demand for our informatics offerings, and we continued to grow our laboratory services business by adding new customers to our OneSource multivendor service offering. Sales of environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products also grew in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, as increased regulations in environmental and food safety markets continued to drive demand for our analytical instrumentation and follow-on consumables, particularly in China and South America. We saw continued strength in our inorganic analysis solutions, such as our NexION® mass spectrometer, as trace metals identification remains a critical component of contaminant detection for environmental, as well as food and consumer safety, applications. These increases were partially offset by decreased demand for our applications in the industrial markets. We believe these trends will continue as emerging contaminant testing protocols and corresponding regulations are developed, resulting in continued demand for efficient, analytically sensitive and information rich testing solutions. 

Our consolidated gross margins increased 135 basis points in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, due to the lower fiscal year 2012 mark-to-market charge for our postretirement benefit plans, increased sales volume, changes in product mix with growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings and productivity improvements. Our consolidated operating 

28
margin decreased 9 basis points in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to the fiscal year 2012 pre-tax impairment charges of $74.2 million as a result of a review of certain of our trade names within our portfolio as part of a realignment of our marketing strategy and increased costs related to growth and productivity investments, partially offset by a lower fiscal year 2012 mark-to-market charge for our postretirement benefit plans, higher gross margins and cost containment and productivity initiatives.

We believe we are well positioned to continue to take advantage of the stable spending trends in our end markets and to promote our efficiencies in markets where current conditions may increase demand for certain services. Overall, we believe that our strategic focus on Human Health and Environmental Health coupled with our breadth of end markets, deep portfolio of technologies and applications, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength will provide us with a strong foundation for continued growth.

Consolidated Results of Continuing Operations

Revenue

2012 Compared to 2011. Revenue for fiscal year 2012 was $2,115.2 million, as compared to $1,918.5 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $196.7 million, or 10%, which includes an approximate 7% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 2% decrease in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in revenue reflects a $159.7 million, or 18%, increase in our Human Health segment revenue, due to an increase in research market revenue of $110.9 million and an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $48.8 million. Our Environmental Health segment revenue increased $37.0 million, or 4%, due to an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $47.2 million, partially offset by decreases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $10.2 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $26.2 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2012 and $30.8 million for fiscal year 2011 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods.

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $1,918.5 million, as compared to $1,701.8 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $216.7 million, or 13%, which includes an approximate 5% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in revenue reflects a $90.7 million, or 11%, increase in our Human Health segment revenue, due to an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $52.3 million and an increase in research market revenue of $38.4 million. Our Environmental Health segment revenue increased $126.1 million, or 14%, due to increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $75.9 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $50.1 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $30.8 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2011 and $0.7 million for fiscal year 2010 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods.

Cost of Revenue

2012 Compared to 2011. Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2012 was $1,152.0 million, as compared to $1,070.7 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of approximately $81.3 million, or 8%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue decreased to 54.5% in fiscal year 2012 from 55.8% in fiscal year 2011, resulting in an increase in gross margin of approximately 135 basis points to 45.5% in fiscal year 2012 from 44.2% in fiscal year 2011. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $51.8 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $53.4 million for fiscal year 2011. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $3.7 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to a loss of $4.2 million for fiscal year 2011. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $1.3 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $1.1 million for fiscal year 2011. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an expense of approximately $5.2 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $4.1 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, the increase in gross margin was primarily the result of increased sales volume, changes in product mix with growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings and productivity improvements, partially offset by increased costs related to acquisitions.

2011 Compared to 2010. Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $1,070.7 million, as compared to $943.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of approximately $127.6 million, or 14%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 55.8% in fiscal year 2011 from 55.4% in fiscal year 2010, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 39 basis points to 44.2% in fiscal year 2011 from 44.6% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $53.4 

29
million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $42.5 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $4.2 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a loss of $0.1 million for fiscal year 2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $1.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $0.9 million for fiscal year 2010. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an expense of approximately $4.1 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, the decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of changes in product mix with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings and increased freight costs, partially offset by increased sales volume, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

2012 Compared to 2011. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2012 were $632.7 million, as compared to $624.4 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of approximately $8.3 million, or 1%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased and were 29.9% in fiscal year 2012, compared to 32.5% in fiscal year 2011. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $38.9 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $25.9 million for fiscal year 2011. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $27.9 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to a loss of $62.9 million for fiscal year 2011. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $19.0 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $13.8 million for fiscal year 2011. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2012 and $11.2 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of costs related to acquisitions and growth and productivity investments, particularly in emerging territories, partially offset by cost containment initiatives.

2011 Compared to 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2011 were $624.4 million, as compared to $487.3 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of approximately $137.1 million, or 28%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses increased and were 32.5% in fiscal year 2011, compared to 28.6% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $25.9 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $16.6 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $62.9 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a loss of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $13.8 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $11.2 million for fiscal year 2010. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $11.2 million for fiscal year 2011 and $2.8 million for fiscal year 2010. In addition to the above, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of costs related to acquisitions and increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, partially offset by cost containment and productivity initiatives.

Research and Development Expenses

2012 Compared to 2011. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2012 were $132.6 million, as compared to $115.8 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $16.8 million, or 15%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 6.3% in fiscal year 2012, as compared to 6.0% in fiscal year 2011. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $0.5 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $0.7 million for fiscal year 2011. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to a loss of $0.8 million for fiscal year 2011. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $0.8 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $0.6 million for fiscal year 2011. We have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2012 and 2011, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.

2011 Compared to 2010. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2011 were $115.8 million, as compared to $94.8 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $21.0 million, or 22%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 6.0% in fiscal year 2011, as compared to 5.6% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $0.7 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $0.8 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a minimal gain for fiscal year 2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $0.6 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $0.5 million for fiscal year 2010. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.

30
Restructuring and Contract Termination Charges, Net

We have undertaken a series of restructuring actions related to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, alignment with our growth strategy and the integration of our business units. Restructuring and contract termination charges, net, for fiscal year 2012 were a $25.1 million charge, as compared to a $13.5 million charge for fiscal year 2011 and an $19.0 million charge for fiscal year 2010.

The following table summarizes our restructuring and contract termination accrual balances and related activity by restructuring plan, as well as contract termination, during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The restructuring plans for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 and fourth and second quarter of fiscal year 2011 were intended principally to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The restructuring plan for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 was intended to shift certain of our operations into a newly established shared service center. The restructuring plans for the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2012 were intended principally to realign operations, research and development resources, and production resources as a result of recent acquisitions. The activities associated with these plans have been reported as restructuring expenses and are included as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate cost savings from the restructuring plans on operating results and cash flows to approximately offset the increased spending required to realign operations. We expect the impact of future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows will exceed $11.0 million on an annual basis beginning in fiscal year 2014, primarily as decreases to cost of revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses. 

Q4 2012 Restructuring Plan

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q4 2012 Plan”). As a result of the Q4 2012 Plan, we recognized a $0.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and recognized a $2.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities.

As part of the Q4 2012 Plan, we reduced headcount by 54 employees. All employees were notified of termination by December 30, 2012, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $2.7 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2014. 

The following table summarizes the components of our Q4 2012 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
Q3 2012 Restructuring Plan

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, our management approved a plan to shift certain of our operations into a newly established shared service center (the “Q3 2012 Plan”). As a result of the Q3 2012 Plan, we recognized $3.7 million pre-tax restructuring charges in each of the Human Health and Environmental Health segments related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities. During fiscal year 2012, we also recorded an additional pre-tax restructuring accrual of $0.3 million relating to the Q3 2012 plan due to higher than expected costs associated with the workforce reduction from reorganization activities within both the Human Health and Environmental Health segments.

As part of the Q3 2012 Plan, we will reduce headcount by 66 employees. All employees were notified of termination by September 30, 2012, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $7.6 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015. 

The following table summarizes the components of our Q3 2012 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q2 2012 Restructuring Plan

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, our management approved a plan to realign operations, research and development resources, and production resources as a result of recent acquisitions (the “Q2 2012 Plan”). As a result of the Q2 2012 Plan, we recognized a $7.2 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and recognized a $0.2 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities throughout fiscal year 2012. We expect to recognize an additional $2.2 million of incremental restructuring expense in future periods as services are provided for one-time termination benefits in which the employee is required to render service until termination in order to receive the benefits. Such benefits will be recognized ratably over the required service period.

As part of the Q2 2012 Plan, we will reduce headcount by 205 employees. All employees were notified of termination by July 1, 2012, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $4.6 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2014. 

The following table summarizes the components of our Q2 2012 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q1 2012 Restructuring Plan

During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, our management approved a plan to realign operations and production resources as a result of recent acquisitions (the “Q1 2012 Plan”). As a result of the Q1 2012 Plan, we recognized a $5.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space and recognized a $1.0 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities throughout fiscal year 2012. We expect to recognize no additional incremental restructuring expense in future periods as all services were provided for one-time termination benefits in which the employee was required to render service until termination in order to receive the benefits.

As part of the Q1 2012 Plan, we will reduce headcount by 112 employees. All employees were notified of termination and actions related to the closure of excess facility space were completed by April 1, 2012, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $1.3 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. No remaining payments exist for the closure of the excess facility space.

32
The following table summarizes the components of our Q1 2012 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q4 2011 Restructuring Plan

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q4 2011 Plan”). As a result of the Q4 2011 Plan, we recognized a $2.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and recognized a $4.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. During fiscal year 2012, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring reversal of $0.1 million relating to the Q4 2011 Plan due to a reduction in the estimated costs associated with the closure of an excess facility in the Environmental Health segment. 

As part of the Q4 2011 Plan, we reduced headcount by 114 employees. All employees were notified of termination and actions related to the closure of excess facility space were completed by January 1, 2012, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $0.5 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. No remaining payments exist for the closure of the excess facility space.

The following table summarizes the components of our Q4 2011 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q2 2011 Restructuring Plan

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q2 2011 Plan”). As a result of the Q2 2011 Plan, we recognized a $2.2 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space and also recognized a $3.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. During the fiscal year 2012, we recorded a reversal of the pre-tax restructuring accrual of $0.2 million relating to the Q2 2011 Plan due to lower than expected costs associated with the workforce reduction from reorganization activities within the Environmental Health segment.

As part of the Q2 2011 Plan, we reduced headcount by 72 employees. All employees were notified of termination and actions related to the closure of excess facility space were completed by July 3, 2011, and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $0.6 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. No remaining payments exist for the closure of the excess facility space.

33
The following table summarizes the components of our Q2 2011 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Previous Restructuring and Integration Plans

The principal actions of the restructuring and integration plans from fiscal years 2001 through 2010 were workforce reductions related to the integration of our businesses in order to reduce costs and achieve operational efficiencies as well as workforce reductions in both the Human Health and Environmental Health segments by shifting resources into geographic regions and end markets that are more consistent with our growth strategy. During fiscal year 2012, we paid $4.0 million related to these plans and recorded an additional charge of $0.2 million related to higher than expected costs associated with workforce reductions in Europe within the Human Health segment, as well as a reversal of $0.7 million primarily related to a reduction in the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for an excess facility in Europe within the Environmental Health segment. As of December 30, 2012, we had approximately $10.0 million of remaining liabilities associated with these restructuring and integration plans, primarily for residual lease obligations related to closed facilities and remaining severance payments for workforce reductions in both the Human Health and Environmental Health segments. We expect to make payments for these leases, the terms of which vary in length, through fiscal year 2022.

Contract Termination Charges

We have terminated various contractual commitments in connection with certain disposal activities and have recorded charges, to the extent applicable, for the costs of terminating these contracts before the end of their terms and the costs that will continue to be incurred for the remaining terms without economic benefit to us. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2012, a pre-tax charge of $2.0 million in fiscal year 2011 and a pre-tax charge of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2010, primarily as a result of terminating various contractual commitments in our Environmental Health segment. We made payments for these obligations of $2.9 million during fiscal year 2012, $0.4 million during fiscal year 2011, and $1.7 million during fiscal year 2010. The remaining balance of these accruals as of December 30, 2012 was $0.6 million. 

Impairment of Assets

2012 Compared to 2011. Impairment of assets was $74.2 million in fiscal year 2012, as compared to $3.0 million in fiscal year 2011. As part of integrating our recent acquisitions, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we decided that prospectively we would primarily focus on the PerkinElmer trade name. Accordingly, we undertook a review of certain of our trade names within our portfolio as part of a realignment of our marketing strategy, which resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $74.2 million in fiscal year 2012. We recognized $54.3 million pre-tax impairment charges in the Human Health segment and also recognized $19.9 million pre-tax impairment charges in the Environmental Health segment. Additional information regarding this impairment is discussed in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

2011 Compared to 2010. Impairment of assets was $3.0 million in fiscal year 2011, as compared to zero in fiscal year 2010. The fiscal year 2011 pre-tax impairment charge was $3.0 million for the impairment of intangible assets within our Human Health segment for the full impairment of license agreements, that we no longer intend to use.

34
Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net

Interest and other expense (income), net, consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 Compared to 2011. Interest and other expense (income), net, for fiscal year 2012 was an expense of $48.0 million, as compared to an expense of $26.8 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $21.2 million. The increase in interest and other expense (income), net, in fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to higher debt balances and an increase of fixed rate debt to partially fund the Caliper acquisition in fiscal year 2011. Interest expense increased by $21.0 million in fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to the increased debt and the higher interest rates on those debt balances associated with the issuance of the 2021 Notes. Interest income decreased by $1.1 million in fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to lower cash balances and lower interest rates on invested cash. For fiscal year 2011, acquisition related financing costs related to certain acquisitions added expense of $3.1 million, and is included in interest expense. Other expenses for fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011 decreased by $1.0 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and translation of non-functional currency assets and liabilities. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

2011 Compared to 2010. Interest and other expense (income), net, for fiscal year 2011 was an expense of $26.8 million, as compared to income of $8.4 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $35.2 million. The increase in interest and other expense (income), net, in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to the pre-tax gain of $25.6 million recognized during fiscal year 2010 related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture and other related tangible assets. Interest expense increased by $8.9 million in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to the increased debt and the higher interest rates on those debt balances with the issuance of the 2021 Notes. Interest income increased by $1.1 million in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher cash balances. For fiscal year 2011, acquisition related financing costs related to certain acquisitions added expense of $3.1 million, and is included in interest expense. Other expenses for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 increased by $1.7 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and translation of non-functional currency assets and liabilities.

(Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes

2012 Compared to 2011. The fiscal year 2012 benefit from income taxes on continuing operations was $17.9 million, as compared to a provision of $63.2 million for fiscal year 2011. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was a benefit of 35.3% for fiscal year 2012 as compared to a provision of 98.2% for fiscal year 2011. The benefit from income taxes in fiscal year 2012 was primarily due to a tax benefit of $7.0 million related to discrete items and losses in higher tax rate jurisdictions, which included the pre-tax impairment charges of $74.2 million, partially offset by a provision from income taxes related to profits in lower tax rate jurisdictions. The fiscal year 2011 provision for incomes taxes includes an additional provision of $79.7 million related to our planned $350.0 million repatriation of previously unremitted earnings. 

2011 Compared to 2010. The fiscal year 2011 provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $63.2 million, as compared to a provision of $27.0 million for fiscal year 2010. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 98.2% for fiscal year 2011 as compared to 16.3% for fiscal year 2010. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to (i) a provision of $79.7 million in fiscal year 2011 related to our planned $350.0 million repatriation of previously unremitted earnings, partially offset by (ii) changes in the geographic distribution of profits, with increases in lower tax rate jurisdictions. 

Discontinued Operations

As part of our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. We have accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations and, accordingly, have presented the results of operations and related cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been presented separately, and are reflected within the assets and liabilities from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012.

35
We recorded the following pre-tax gains and losses, which have been reported as a net gain on disposition of discontinued operations during the three fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2010, we sold our IDS business, which was included in the Environmental Health segment, for $510.3 million including an adjustment for net working capital, to reduce the complexity of our product offerings and organizational structure, and to provide capital to reinvest in other Human Health and Environmental Health end markets. The buyer acquired our IDS business through the purchase of all outstanding stock of certain of our subsidiaries located in Germany, Canada, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States as well as the purchase of related assets and the assumption of liabilities held by us and certain of our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Germany. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $315.3 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale of our IDS business. During fiscal year 2011, we updated the net working capital adjustment associated with the sale of this business and other potential contingencies, which resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million. These gains and losses were recognized as gain (loss) on disposition of discontinued operations.

In December 2008, our management approved a plan to divest our Photoflash business within our Environmental Health segment. In June 2010, we sold the Photoflash business for $13.5 million, including an adjustment for net working capital, plus potential additional contingent consideration. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $4.4 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale. During fiscal year 2012, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $2.5 million for contingent consideration related to this sale. These gains were recognized as a gain on disposition of discontinued operations.

During fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, we settled various commitments related to the divestiture of other discontinued operations. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $3.9 million in fiscal year 2011 and a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million in fiscal year 2010. The fiscal year 2011 pre-tax gain included $4.0 million for contingent consideration related to the sale of our semiconductor business in fiscal year 2006. 

Summary pre-tax operating results of the discontinued operations for the periods prior to disposition were as follows for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recognized a tax provision of $0.9 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2012, a tax benefit of $4.5 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2011 and a tax provision of $96.6 million in fiscal year 2010 on discontinued operations. The recognition of $4.5 million income tax benefit in fiscal year 2011 is primarily the net result of a change in estimate related to the federal income tax liability associated with the repatriation of the unremitted earnings of the IDS and Photoflash businesses, as further described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K, offset by the tax provision on the contingent consideration received in fiscal year 2011 related to the sale of our semiconductor business in fiscal year 2006. The recognition of $96.6 million income tax expense in fiscal year 2010 includes $16.0 million of income tax expense associated with unremitted earnings of directly-owned foreign subsidiaries that no longer qualified as indefinitely reinvested once the subsidiary was held for sale, and $65.8 million related to the federal income tax liability associated with the repatriation of the unremitted earnings of the IDS and Photoflash businesses, as further described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

36
Business Combinations

Acquisition of Haoyuan Biotech Co., Ltd. In November 2012, we acquired all outstanding stock of Haoyuan. Haoyuan is a provider of nucleic acid-based blood screening solutions for the blood banking and clinical diagnostics markets. We expect this acquisition to extend our capabilities into nucleic acid blood screening, as well as deepen our position in the growing molecular clinical diagnostics market in China. We paid the shareholders of Haoyuan $38.0 million in cash for the stock of Haoyuan. We recorded a receivable of $2.7 million from the shareholders of Haoyuan as a reduction of purchase price for the settlement of certain contingencies. As of the closing date, we potentially had to pay the shareholders additional contingent consideration of up to $30.0 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $1.9 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date. 

Acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. In November 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Caliper. Caliper is a provider of imaging and detection solutions for life sciences research, diagnostics and environmental markets. Caliper develops and sells integrated systems, consisting of instruments, software, reagents, laboratory automation tools, and assay development and discovery services, primarily to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and diagnostics companies, and government and other not-for-profit research institutions. We expect this acquisition to enhance our molecular imaging and detection technologies and to complement our offerings in life science, diagnostics, environmental and food markets. We paid the shareholders of Caliper $646.3 million in cash for the stock of Caliper. We financed the acquisition by issuing $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2021 in a registered public offering and received approximately $496.9 million of net proceeds from the issuance, with the remainder of the purchase price paid from available cash. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date. 

Acquisition of Dexela Limited. In June 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Dexela Limited ("Dexela"). Dexela is a provider of flat panel CMOS x-ray detection technologies and services. We expect this acquisition to expand our current medical imaging portfolio in key areas including surgery, dental, cardiology and mammography, as well as non-destructive testing. With the addition of the CMOS technology to our imaging portfolio, customers will be able to choose between two complementary x-ray detector technologies to optimize their system performance and meet their specific application needs. We paid the shareholders of Dexela $26.1 million in cash for the stock of Dexela. As of the closing date, we potentially had to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $12.2 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $4.6 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Labtronics, Inc. In May 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Labtronics, Inc. ("Labtronics"). Labtronics is a provider of procedures-based Electronic Laboratory Notebook (“ELN”) solutions for laboratories performing routine analysis in multiple industries. We expect this acquisition to extend our ELN and data integration software offerings into laboratories following strict routine procedures, late stage product or method development laboratories and environmental and food testing laboratories. Labtronics tools can be applied to procedure-based problems, including laboratory analysis, equipment calibration and validation, cleaning validation and other problems. We paid the shareholders of Labtronics $11.4 million in cash for the stock of Labtronics. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Geospiza, Inc. In May 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Geospiza, Inc. ("Geospiza"). Geospiza is a developer of software systems for the management of genetic analysis and laboratory workflows. Geospiza primarily services biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, researchers, contract core and diagnostic laboratories involved in genetic testing and manufacturing bio-therapeutics by meeting their combined laboratory, data management and analytical needs. We expect this acquisition to enhance our software offerings, which will enable researchers to explore the genomic origins of disease effectively, and help address customers’ growing needs to manage knowledge and improve scientific productivity. We paid the shareholders of Geospiza $13.2 million in cash for the stock of Geospiza. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, 

37
as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of CambridgeSoft Corporation. In April 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of CambridgeSoft Corporation ("CambridgeSoft"). CambridgeSoft is a provider of discovery, collaboration and knowledge enterprise solutions, scientific databases and professional services. CambridgeSoft primarily services pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical industries with solutions that help customers create, analyze and communicate scientific data while improving the speed, quality, efficiency and predictability of research and development investments. We expect this acquisition to enhance our focus on knowledge management in laboratory settings by expanding our software offerings, enabling customers to share data used for scientific decisions. We paid the shareholders of CambridgeSoft $227.4 million in cash at the closing for the stock of CambridgeSoft and recorded a receivable of $4.2 million from the shareholders of CambridgeSoft as a reduction of purchase price for the settlement of contingencies. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we settled the contingencies and collected the receivable. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of ID Biological Systems, Inc. In March 2011, we acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of ID Biological Systems, Inc. ("IDB"). IDB is a manufacturer of filter paper-based sample collection devices for neonatal screening and prenatal diagnostics. We expect this acquisition to enhance our market position in the prenatal and neonatal markets. We paid $7.7 million in cash at the closing for this transaction. As of the closing date, we potentially had to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $3.3 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $0.3 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of ArtusLabs, Inc. In March 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of ArtusLabs, Inc. ("ArtusLabs"). ArtusLabs offers the Ensemble® scientific knowledge platform, to accelerate research and development in the pharmaceutical, chemical, petrochemical and related industries. Ensemble® integrates disparate data from customers’ ELNs and informatics systems and databases. We expect this acquisition to enhance our focus on knowledge management in laboratory settings by expanding our informatics offerings, enabling customers to rapidly access enterprise-wide data. We paid the shareholders of ArtusLabs $15.2 million in cash at the closing for the stock of ArtusLabs. As of the closing date, we potentially had to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $15.0 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $7.5 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG. In February 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG ("chemagen"). chemagen manufactures and sells nucleic acid sample preparation systems and reagents utilizing magnetic bead technology. We expect this acquisition to enhance our diagnostics business by expanding our product offerings to diagnostics, academic and industrial end markets. We paid the shareholders of chemagen $34.6 million in cash for the stock of chemagen. As of the closing date, we potentially had to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $20.3 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $7.7 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

We do not consider the acquisitions completed during fiscal years 2012 and 2011, with the exception of the Caliper acquisition, to be material to our consolidated results of operations; therefore, we are not presenting pro forma financial information of operations. The aggregate revenue and results of operations for Haoyuan for the period from the acquisition date to December 30, 2012 were minimal. The aggregate revenue for the acquisitions, with the exception of Caliper, completed during fiscal year 2011 for the period from their respective acquisition dates to January 1, 2012 was $32.4 million. We have also determined that the presentation of the results of operations for each of those acquisitions, from the date of acquisition, is impracticable due to the integration of the operations upon acquisition. 

38
Allocations of the purchase price for acquisitions are based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and are subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocations. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgments as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair values for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, based on revenue thresholds or product development milestones achieved through given dates, with changes in the fair value after the acquisition date affecting earnings to the extent it is to be settled in cash. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities primarily result from changes in the estimated probabilities of achieving revenue thresholds or product development milestones during the earnout period. We may have to pay contingent consideration, related to all acquisitions with open contingency periods, of up to $61.3 million as of December 30, 2012. As of December 30, 2012, we had recorded contingent consideration obligations relating to our acquisitions of Dexela and Haoyuan, with an estimated fair value of $3.0 million. The earnout periods for each of these acquisitions do not exceed three years from the acquisition date. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these fair values, the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, require acceleration of the amortization expense of definite-lived intangible assets, or the recognition of additional consideration which would be expensed. 

In connection with the purchase price allocations for acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of deferred revenue assumed with our acquisitions. The estimated fair value of deferred revenue is determined by the legal performance obligation at the date of acquisition, and is generally based on the nature of the activities to be performed and the related costs to be incurred after the acquisition date. The fair value of an assumed liability related to deferred revenue is estimated based on the current market cost of fulfilling the obligation, plus a normal profit margin thereon. The estimated costs to fulfill the deferred revenue are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the services. We do not include any costs associated with selling effort, research and development, or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. In most acquisitions, profit associated with selling effort is excluded because the acquired businesses would have concluded the selling effort on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. The estimated research and development costs are not included in the fair value determination, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. The sum of the costs and operating income approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third-party to assume the obligation. 

As of December 30, 2012, with the exception of the purchase price allocation for the Haoyuan acquisition, the purchase price allocations for acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were final. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price for the Haoyuan acquisition was based upon an initial valuation and our estimates and assumptions underlying the initial valuation are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the fair value of certain tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, assets and liabilities related to income taxes and related valuation allowances, and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period. During the measurement period, we will adjust assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. Adjustments to the preliminary allocation of the purchase price during the measurement period require the revision of comparative prior period financial information when reissued in subsequent financial statements. The effect of any measurement period adjustments to the allocation of the purchase price made during the measurement period would be as if the adjustments had been completed on the acquisition date. The effects of such adjustments, if material, will cause changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income or expense recognized in prior periods. All changes that do not qualify as adjustments made during the measurement period are included in current period earnings.

Contingencies, Including Tax Matters

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $6.1 million as of December 30, 2012, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of the ultimate remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any 

39
additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.

Enzo Biochem, Inc. and Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. (collectively, “Enzo”) filed a complaint dated October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Civil Action No. 02-8448, seeking injunctive and monetary relief against Amersham plc, Amersham BioSciences, PerkinElmer, Inc., PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Sigma Chemical Company, Inc., Molecular Probes, Inc., and Orchid BioSciences, Inc. The complaint alleges that we breached our distributorship and settlement agreements with Enzo, infringed Enzo’s patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against Enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of Enzo’s patented products and technology, separately and together with the other defendants. We filed an answer and a counterclaim alleging that Enzo’s patents are invalid. In 2007, after the court issued a decision in 2006 regarding the construction of the claims in Enzo’s patents that effectively limited the coverage of certain of those claims and, we believe, excluded certain of our products from the coverage of Enzo’s patents, summary judgment motions were filed by the defendants. The case was assigned to a new district court judge in January 2009 and in March 2009, the new judge denied the pending summary judgment motions without prejudice and ordered a stay of the case until the federal appellate court decided Enzo’s appeal of the judgment of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in Enzo Biochem vs. Applera Corp. and Tropix, Inc. (the “Connecticut Case”), which involved a number of the same patents and which could materially affect the scope of Enzo’s case against us. In March 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed-in-part and reversed-in-part the judgment in the Connecticut Case. The district court permitted us and the other defendants to jointly file a motion for summary judgment on certain patent and other issues common to all of the defendants. On September 12, 2012, the court granted in part and denied in part our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement. On December 21, 2012, we filed a second motion for summary judgment on claims that were not addressed in the first motion. The second motion is pending. The district court has permitted Enzo to take limited discovery directed to the motion with briefing to be concluded in May 2013.

We believe we have meritorious defenses to the matter described above, and we are contesting the action vigorously. While this matter is subject to uncertainty, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Tax years after 2005 remain open to examination by various tax jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations, such as Singapore, China, Finland, Germany, Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Italy and the United States. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. We regularly review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. We make adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in management’s judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position.

We are also subject to various other claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these other contingencies at December 30, 2012 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. However, each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us.

Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations

We announced a new alignment of our businesses effective for fiscal year 2013 that will allow us to implement our strategy and propel our vision to improve global health by innovating technologies that help make healthcare more effective, affordable and accessible around the world. Our field service for products previously sold by our former Bio-discovery business, as well as our Informatics business, will be moved from our Environmental Health segment into our Human Health segment. We will report our financial results beginning in fiscal year 2013 using this new alignment under our Human Health and Environmental Health segments.

40
Human Health

2012 Compared to 2011. Revenue for fiscal year 2012 was $1,044.1 million, as compared to $884.4 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $159.7 million, or 18%, which includes an approximate 14% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 2% decrease in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in research market revenue of $110.9 million and an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $48.8 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $6.1 million of revenue in our Human Health segment for fiscal year 2012 and $3.3 million of revenue in our Human Health segment for fiscal year 2011 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. This increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2012 was due primarily to growth in the research market due to continued demand for our in-vivo imaging systems with the addition of Caliper imaging systems, as well as increased demand for our JANUS® automation tools and our Operetta® cellular imaging systems. The growth in the research market was partially offset by a decline in demand for our suite of radioactive reagents, and reduced sales to pharmaceutical companies resulting from reduced research and development spending. We also experienced growth in the diagnostics market as birth rates in the United States began to stabilize and from continued expansion of our prenatal, newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside the United States, particularly in emerging markets such as China. In our medical imaging business, we had growth in our traditional diagnostic imaging offerings and continued growth from our therapeutic and non-medical applications, as well as increased demand for our CMOS imaging technology.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2012 was $73.7 million, as compared to $99.3 million for fiscal year 2011, a decrease of $25.6 million, or 26%. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $67.9 million and $53.9 million for fiscal year 2012 and fiscal year 2011, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges increased and were $17.6 million for fiscal year 2012 as compared to $6.2 million for fiscal year 2011. Impairment of assets was a charge of $54.3 million for fiscal year 2012 as a result of a review of certain of our trade names within our portfolio as part of a realignment of our marketing strategy, as compared to $3.0 million for fiscal year 2011 for the full impairment of license agreements, that we no longer intend to use. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to an expense of $12.5 million for fiscal year 2011. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions was $5.2 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to $4.1 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition, costs related to acquisitions and growth and productivity investments, particularly in emerging territories, decreased operating income for fiscal year 2012, which was partially offset by increased sales volume, favorable changes in product mix and cost containment initiatives.

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $884.4 million, as compared to $793.7 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $90.7 million, or 11%, which includes an approximate 6% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $52.3 million and an increase in research market revenue of $38.4 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $3.3 million of revenue in our Human Health segment for fiscal year 2011 and $0.7 million for fiscal year 2010 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. This increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to increased demand from the adoption of our neonatal and infectious disease screening offerings in the diagnostics market, increased growth for pre-clinical instruments and reagents in the research market, and continued growth from non-medical applications of our imaging technology in our medical imaging business. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lower birth rates in the United States and tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market, as well as reduced revenue to pharmaceutical companies resulting from continued customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market and reduced demand for our legacy radioisotope portfolio in the research market.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was $99.3 million, as compared to $97.9 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $1.5 million, or 1%. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $53.9 million and $46.7 million for fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges decreased and were $6.2 million for fiscal year 2011 as compared to $10.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Impairment of assets was a charge of $3.0 million for fiscal year 2011 for the full impairment of license agreements, that we no longer intend to use. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions 

41
added an expense of $12.5 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to an expense of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2010. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions was $4.1 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment and productivity initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2011, which was partially offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and costs related to acquisitions and growth investments in research and development.

Environmental Health

2012 Compared to 2011. Revenue for fiscal year 2012 was $1,071.1 million, as compared to $1,034.1 million for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $37.0 million, or 4%, which includes an approximate 2% decrease in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 1% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $47.2 million, partially offset by decreases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $10.2 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $20.2 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2012 and $27.5 million for fiscal year 2011 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. This increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during the fiscal year 2012 was due primarily to growth in our informatics offerings within the laboratory services market, as well as continued strength in our inorganic analysis solutions. These increases were partially offset by decreased demand for our applications in the industrial markets.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2012 was $97.3 million, as compared to $99.3 million for fiscal year 2011, a decrease of $2.0 million, or 2%. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $23.3 million and $26.1 million for fiscal year 2012 and fiscal year 2011, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges increased and were $7.6 million for fiscal year 2012 as compared to $7.3 million for fiscal year 2011. Impairment of assets was a charge of $19.9 million for fiscal year 2012 as a result of a review of certain of our trade names within our portfolio as part of a realignment of our marketing strategy. Acquisition related costs for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions was an expense of $0.1 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to income of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition, incremental costs primarily related to our informatics acquisitions and increased costs related to growth and productivity investments, particularly in emerging territories, decreased operating income for fiscal year 2012, which was partially offset by increased sales volume, changes in product mix with growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings and cost containment initiatives.

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $1,034.1 million, as compared to $908.0 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $126.1 million, or 14%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 2% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $75.9 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $50.1 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $27.5 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2011 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during that period. This increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during the fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to growth in our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products, as well as growth in our OneSource® multivendor service offering as our comprehensive services continued to grow with our key customers. We also experienced continued growth in industrial markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases primarily related to materials analysis, chemical processing and semi-conductor applications supported by our molecular spectroscopy and chromatography platforms.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was $99.3 million, as compared to $95.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $4.3 million, or 4%. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $26.1 million and $14.0 million for fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges decreased and were $7.3 million for fiscal year 2011 as compared to $8.5 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added income of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to an expense of $1.5 million for fiscal year 2010. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment and productivity initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2011, which was partially offset by incremental costs primarily related to our informatics acquisitions, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and increased freight costs.

42
Liquidity and Capital Resources

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are from our operations and the capital markets, particularly the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities.

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include:

•changes in sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and

•changes in our working capital requirements.

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:

•financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity,

•increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt,

•a ratings downgrade that could limit the amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market,

•increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis,

•a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and

•volatility in the public debt and equity markets.

Cash Flows

Fiscal Year 2012 

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $153.6 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $234.0 million for fiscal year 2011, a decrease of $80.4 million. The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2012 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $68.4 million, and non-cash charges, including depreciation and amortization of $126.9 million, impairment of assets charge of $74.2 million, the expense related to our postretirement benefit plans, including the mark-to-market charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, of $35.3 million, restructuring and contract termination charges, net, of $25.1 million, and stock based compensation expense of $21.0 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $60.7 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital for fiscal year 2012, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $44.6 million, an increase in inventory of $8.2 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $7.9 million. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. The increase in inventory was primarily a result of realigning operations, research and development resources, and production resources within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to ensure responsiveness to customer requirements as this realignment occurs. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, decreased cash provided by operating activities by $136.7 million for fiscal year 2012, and primarily related to the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.

Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $82.8 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations of $942.1 million for fiscal year 2011, a decrease of $859.3 million. For fiscal year 2012, we used $40.9 million of net cash for acquisitions and investments, as compared to $914.0 million used in fiscal year 2011. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2012 were $42.4 million, primarily for manufacturing equipment and other capital equipment purchases, which included $5.5 million of capital improvements to leased buildings, which have been funded by the lessor, as described below in our financing lease obligations. Restricted cash balances decreased for fiscal year 2012 by $0.5 million, as compared to a decrease in restricted cash balances of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2011. 

Financing Activities. Net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations was $44.2 million for fiscal year 2012, as compared to net cash provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations of $399.1 million for fiscal 

43
year 2011, a decrease of $443.3 million. For fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 82,186 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $2.1 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of 4.0 million shares of our common stock, including 84,243 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $110.0 million, including commissions, for fiscal year 2011. This use of cash in fiscal year 2012 was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $34.2 million, including $1.8 million for the related excess tax benefit. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $33.1 million, including $9.3 million for the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2012, debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $395.0 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $435.9 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $787.0 million and net proceeds of $496.9 million from the issuance of our ten-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 5%, which was partially offset by debt reductions of $763.0 million. We paid $31.9 million and $31.8 million in dividends during fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. In fiscal year 2012, we received $4.1 million for settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts. In addition, we paid $0.4 million for debt issuance costs and we settled $12.5 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date fair value during fiscal year 2012, as compared to $10.5 million for debt issuance costs and $0.1 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date fair value during fiscal year 2011. We also recorded $5.5 million of financing related to capital improvements to leased buildings, which have been funded by the lessor, as described below in our financing lease obligations.

Fiscal Year 2011 

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $234.0 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $167.2 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $66.8 million. The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2011 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $1.2 million, and non-cash charges, including depreciation and amortization of $110.9 million, stock based compensation expense of $15.5 million, restructuring and contract termination charges, net, of $13.5 million, and the expense related to our postretirement benefit plans, including the mark-to-market charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, of $75.0 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $24.6 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital for fiscal year 2011, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $20.6 million, an increase in inventory of $2.2 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $1.8 million. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. The increase in inventory overall was primarily a result of expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements and for the introduction of new products. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, increased cash provided by operating activities by $42.6 million for fiscal year 2011, and primarily related to the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.

Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $942.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations of $174.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $768.0 million. For fiscal year 2011, we used $914.0 million of net cash for acquisitions, core technology purchases, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 were $30.6 million, primarily for capital equipment purchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $0.5 million received during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 from the disposition of property, plant and equipment and $0.8 million from the settlement of life insurance policies. Restricted cash balances decreased for fiscal year 2011 by $1.3 million. 

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations was $399.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations of $215.5 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $614.6 million. For fiscal year 2011, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our common stock, including 84,243 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $110.0 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 57,551 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $72.8 million, including commissions, for fiscal year 2010. This use of cash in fiscal year 2011 was partially offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $33.1 million, including $9.3 million for the related excess tax benefit. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $31.4 million, including $2.4 million for the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2011, debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $787.0 million with additional net proceeds of $496.9 million from the issuance of our ten-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 5%, which was partially offset by debt reductions of $763.0 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $368.0 million which was offset by debt reductions of $508.8 million during fiscal year 2010. We paid $31.8 million and $33.0 million in dividends during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. We paid $10.5 million for debt issuance 

44
costs during fiscal year 2011. In addition, we settled $0.1 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date fair value for acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008 during both fiscal years 2011 and 2010.

Borrowing Arrangements

Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. On December 16, 2011, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility which provides for $700.0 million of revolving loans and has an initial maturity of December 16, 2016. As of December 30, 2012, undrawn letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $12.3 million were treated as issued and outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 30, 2012, we had $429.7 million available for additional borrowing under the facility. We use the senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, refinancing existing indebtedness, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and strategic alliances. The interest rates under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility are based on the Eurocurrency rate at the time of borrowing plus a margin, or the base rate from time to time. The base rate is the higher of (i) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. as its "prime rate," (ii) the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or (iii) one-month Libor plus 1.00%. The Eurocurrency margin as of December 30, 2012 was 130 basis points. The weighted average Eurocurrency interest rate as of December 30, 2012 was 0.21%, resulting in a weighted average effective Eurocurrency rate, including the margin, of 1.51%, which is the interest applicable to borrowings outstanding under the Eurocurrency rate as of December 30, 2012. We had $258.0 million and $298.0 million of borrowings in U.S. Dollars outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility as of December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012, respectively, with interest based primarily on the above described Eurocurrency rate. The credit agreement for the facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default customary for financings of this type and similar to those contained in the credit agreement for our previous facility. The financial covenants in our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility include a debt-to-capital ratio and two contingent covenants, a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, applicable if our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 30, 2012. 

6% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2015. On May 30, 2008, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2015 Notes in a private placement and received $150.0 million of proceeds from the issuance. The 2015 Notes mature in May 2015 and bear interest at an annual rate of 6%. Interest on the 2015 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 30th and November 30th each year. We may redeem some or all of the 2015 Notes at any time, at our option, at a make-whole redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest. The indenture governing the 2015 Notes includes financial covenants of debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent multiple of total debt to earnings ratio, applicable only if our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 30, 2012. 

5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2021. On October 25, 2011, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes in a registered public offering and received approximately $496.9 million of net proceeds from the issuance. The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.372% of the principal amount, which resulted in a discount of $3.1 million. The 2021 Notes mature in November 2021 and bear interest at an annual rate of 5%. Interest on the 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15th and November 15th each year. Prior to August 15, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), we may redeem the 2021 Notes in whole or in part, at our option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect to the 2021 Notes being redeemed, discounted on a semi-annual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 45 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time on or after August 15, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), we may redeem the 2021 Notes, at our option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon a change of control (as defined in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes ) and a contemporaneous downgrade of the 2021 Notes below investment grade, each holder of 2021 Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase such holder's 2021 Notes for 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 30, 2012. 

Financing Lease Obligations. In September 2012, we entered into agreements with the lessors of buildings that we are currently occupying and leasing to expand those buildings. We provided a portion of the funds needed for the construction of the additions to the buildings, which resulted in us being considered the owner of the buildings during the construction period. At the end of the construction period, we will not be reimbursed by the lessors for all of the construction costs. We are therefore deemed to have continuing involvement and the leases will qualify as financing leases under sale-leaseback accounting guidance, representing debt obligations for us and non-cash investing and financing activities. As a result, we capitalized $29.3 million in property and equipment, net, representing the fair value of the buildings with a corresponding increase to debt. In addition, we expect to capitalize additional construction costs, which are not expected to exceed $15.0 million, and will be partially funded by the lessors to complete the additions to the buildings. During fiscal year 2012, we recorded $5.5 million of capital improvements to these buildings, which have been funded by the lessor. The buildings are being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases to their estimated residual values, which will equal the remaining financing 

45
obligation at the end of the lease term. At the end of the lease term, the remaining balances in property, plant and equipment, net and debt will be reversed against each other.

Dividends

Our Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. On January 25, 2013, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share that is payable in May 2013. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 30, 2012 for continuing and discontinued operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________________

(1) The credit facility borrowings carry variable interest rates; the amount included in this table does not include interest obligations.

(2) The 2015 Notes, the 2021 Notes, the Financing Lease Obligations, and Other Debt Facilities, include interest obligations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) The amount includes accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties. We have excluded $40.4 million, including accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties, from the amount related to our uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments.

* Purchase commitments are minimal and have been excluded from this table.

Capital Expenditures

During fiscal year 2013, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2012, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures. During fiscal year 2013, we also expect to record activity related to capital improvements under our financing lease obligations, which are not expected to exceed $9.4 million, and will be partially funded by the lessors.

Other Potential Liquidity Considerations

At December 30, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $171.4 million and a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with $429.7 million available for additional borrowing under the facility. 

Most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As a result of the Caliper acquisition, we concluded in fiscal year 2011 that certain foreign operations did not require the same level of capital as previously expected, and therefore we planned to repatriate approximately $350.0 million of previously unremitted earnings and have provided for the estimated taxes on the repatriation of those earnings. As a result of the planned repatriation, we recorded an increase to our tax provision of $79.7 million in continuing operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. We expect to utilize tax attributes, primarily those acquired in the Caliper acquisition, to minimize the cash taxes paid on the repatriation. As of December 30, 2012, we had remitted $229.2 million of the $350.0 million planned repatriation and we expect to remit the remainder of the planned repatriation amount by the end of fiscal year 2013. We expect accumulated non-U.S. cash balances 

46
will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources.

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On August 31, 2010, we announced that our Board had authorized us to repurchase an additional 5.0 million shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program. The Repurchase Program expired on October 22, 2012. On October 24, 2012, our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 6.0 million shares of common stock under a new stock repurchase program (the "New Repurchase Program"). The New Repurchase Program will expire on October 24, 2014 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2012, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock under either of the stock repurchase programs. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $107.8 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $71.5 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. As of December 30, 2012, approximately 6.0 million shares authorized by our Board under the New Repurchase Program remained available for repurchase. From December 31, 2012 through February 22, 2013, we repurchased approximately 2.6 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $89.0 million, including commissions, under the New Repurchase Program.

Our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 82,186 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $2.1 million. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased 84,243 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $2.2 million. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased 57,551 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $1.3 million. 

The repurchased shares have been reflected as a reduction in shares outstanding, but remain available to be reissued with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with corporate programs. If we continue to repurchase shares, the Repurchase Program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing senior unsecured revolving credit facility.

Distressed global financial markets could adversely impact general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities.

Our pension plans have not experienced a material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we made a contribution of $37.0 million for the 2012 plan year to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States. With respect to plans outside of the United States, we expect to contribute approximately $22.0 million in the aggregate during fiscal year 2013, of which we contributed $10.0 million to one of our foreign plans during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. We could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods for all pension plans. During fiscal year 2012, we made a contribution of $17.0 million for the 2011 plan year to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States, and $10.9 million in the aggregate to our defined benefit pension plans outside of the United States. During fiscal year 2011, we made contributions of $11.5 million in the aggregate to our defined benefit pension plans outside of the United States. We expect to use existing cash and external sources to satisfy future contributions to our pension plans.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, we entered into a strategic agreement under which we acquired certain intangible assets and received a license to certain core technology for an analytics and data discovery platform, as well as the exclusive right to distribute the platform in certain scientific research and development markets. During fiscal year 2012, we paid $6.8 million for net intangible assets and $25.0 million for prepaid royalties, and expect to pay an additional $13.2 million in prepaid royalties within the next year. Royalties are expected to be expensed as revenue is recognized.

Effects of Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 we adopted new guidance for certain of our health care businesses that recognize patient service revenue at the time the services are rendered where we do not assess the patient's ability to pay at such 

47
time. The new guidance requires us to present the provision for bad debts related to such revenue as a deduction from revenue (net of contractual allowances and discounts) on the statements of operations. The effects of the adoption on our consolidated statements of operations were decreases to revenue with corresponding decreases to selling, general and administrative expenses of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2012, $2.8 million for fiscal year 2011 and $2.6 million for fiscal year 2010. Accordingly, the financial data for all periods presented has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the effect of these accounting changes.

Effects of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and are adopted by us as of the specified effective dates. We believe that the impact of recently issued pronouncements will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows or do not apply to our operations. 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, warranty costs, bad debts, inventories, accounting for business combinations and dispositions, long-lived assets, income taxes, restructuring, pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition. We record product revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For products that include installation, and if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, we recognize product revenue upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is recognized when the installation is complete. For revenue that includes customer-specified acceptance criteria, we recognize revenue after the acceptance criteria have been met. Certain of our products require specialized installation. Revenue for these products is deferred until installation is completed. We defer revenue from services and recognize it over the contractual period, or as services are rendered. 

In limited circumstances, we have arrangements that include multiple elements that are delivered at different points of time, such as revenue from products and services with a remaining service or storage component, such as cord blood processing and storage. For these arrangements, the revenue is allocated to each of the deliverables based upon their relative selling prices as determined by a selling-price hierarchy. A deliverable in an arrangement qualifies as a separate unit of accounting if the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis. A delivered item that does not qualify as a separate unit of accounting is combined with the other undelivered items in the arrangement and revenue is recognized for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The selling price used for each deliverable is based upon vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") if such evidence is available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, and management's best estimate of selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE are available. TPE is the price of our or any competitor's largely interchangeable products or services in stand-alone sales to similarly-situated customers. BESP is the price at which we would sell the deliverable if it were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis, considering market conditions and entity-specific factors.

Revenue from software licenses and services was 3% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2012, 2% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2011, and 1% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2010. We sell our software licenses with maintenance services and, in some cases, also with consulting services. For the undelivered elements, we determine VSOE of fair value to be the price charged when the undelivered element is sold separately. We determine VSOE for maintenance sold in connection with a software license based on the amount that was separately charged for the maintenance renewal period. We determine VSOE for consulting services by reference to the amount charged for similar engagements when a software license sale is not involved.

We recognize revenue from software licenses sold together with maintenance and/or consulting services upon shipment using the residual method, provided that the above criteria have been met. If VSOE of fair value for the undelivered elements cannot be established, we defer all revenue from the arrangement until the earlier of the point at which such sufficient VSOE does exist or all elements of the arrangement have been delivered, or if the only undelivered element is maintenance, then we recognize the entire fee ratably over the maintenance period. 

48
The majority of our sales relate to specific manufactured products or units rather than long-term customized projects, therefore we generally do not experience significant changes in original estimates. Further, we have not experienced any significant refunds or promotional allowances that require significant estimation.

Warranty costs. We provide for estimated warranty costs for products at the time of their sale. Warranty liabilities are based on estimated future repair costs using historical labor and material costs incurred in the warranty period.

Allowances for doubtful accounts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We generally compute our allowance for doubtful accounts by (i) applying specific percentage reserves on accounts that are past due and deemed uncollectible; and (ii) specifically reserving for customers known to be in financial difficulty. Therefore, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate beyond our estimates, we may have to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. This would reduce our earnings. Accounts are written-off only when all methods of recovery have been exhausted.

Inventory valuation. We initially value inventory at actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture. We periodically review these values to ascertain that market value of the inventory continues to exceed its recorded cost. Generally, reductions in value of inventory below cost are caused by our maintenance of stocks of products in excess of demand, or technological obsolescence of the inventory. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and, when necessary, record provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on either our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements, or historical trailing usage of the product. If our sales do not materialize as planned or at historic levels, we may have to increase our reserve for excess and obsolete inventory. This would reduce our earnings. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold, resulting in lower costs of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.

Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; previously held equity interests are valued at fair value upon the acquisition of a controlling interest; in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) is recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets, or the recognition of additional consideration which would be expensed.

Value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets including property and equipment, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process. The first step is the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The second step measures the amount of an impairment loss, and is only performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. Non-amortizing intangibles are also subject to an annual impairment test. The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the non-amortizing intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a non-amortizing intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized. In addition, we currently evaluate the remaining useful life of our non-amortizing intangible assets at least annually to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If events or circumstances indicate that the useful lives of non-amortizing intangible assets are no longer indefinite, the assets will be tested for impairment. These intangible assets will then be amortized prospectively over their estimated remaining useful life and accounted for in the same manner as other intangible assets that are subject to amortization. As part of integrating our recent acquisitions, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we decided that prospectively we would primarily focus on the PerkinElmer trade name. Accordingly, we 

49
undertook a review of certain of our trade names within our portfolio as part of a realignment of our marketing strategy, which resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $74.2 million in fiscal year 2012. We concluded that the impairment for trade names was not a triggering event for goodwill because the impairment occurred as a result of our decision to phase out certain trade names. We do not believe that our future cash flows will be significantly impacted by these changes. Through fiscal year 2012, we assessed the annual impairment testing for our reporting units: analytical sciences and laboratory services, diagnostics, life sciences technology and medical imaging. We completed the annual impairment test using a measurement date of January 2, 2012 and January 3, 2011, and concluded based on the first step of the process that there was no goodwill impairment and the fair value substantially exceeded the carrying value. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, if actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used including such items as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve, impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets could be required in the future.

Employee compensation and benefits. We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur. Actuarial gains and losses are measured annually as of fiscal year end and accordingly will be recorded in the fourth quarter, unless we are required to perform an interim remeasurement. 

We incurred expenses of $35.3 million in fiscal year 2012, $75.0 million in fiscal year 2011 and $3.8 million in fiscal year 2010 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, which includes the charge for the mark-to-market adjustment for the postretirement benefit plans, which generally is recorded in the fourth quarter. The expense related to mark-to-market on postretirement benefit plans was $31.8 million in fiscal year 2012, $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011 and $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010. We expect expenses of approximately $0.3 million in fiscal year 2013 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, excluding the charge for or benefit from the mark-to-market adjustment. It is difficult to reliably calculate and predict whether there will be a mark-to-market adjustment in fiscal year 2013. Mark-to-market adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond our control, including changes in interest rates and the performance of the financial markets. To the extent the discount rates decrease or the value of our pension and postretirement investments decrease, mark-to market charges to operations will be recorded in fiscal year 2013. Conversely, to the extent the discount rates increase or the value of our pension and postretirement investments increase more than expected, mark-to market income will be recorded in fiscal year 2013. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at expected pension income or expense for the year.

 As of December 30, 2012, we estimate the expected long-term rate of return on assets in our pension portfolios in the United States to be 7.50% and to be 5.50% for all plans outside the United States. In addition, as of December 30, 2012 we estimate the discount rate for our pension portfolios in the United States to be 3.90% and to be 3.62% for all plans outside the United States. We have analyzed the rates of return on assets used and determined that these rates are reasonable based on the plans’ historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where we invest the assets, as well as our current expectations for long-term rates of returns for our pension and other postretirement benefit assets. Our management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions for each plan based on relevant market conditions, and will make adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Discount rate assumptions have been, and continue to be, based on the prevailing market long-term interest rates corresponding with expected benefit payments at the measurement date. 

50
If any of our assumptions were to change as of December 30, 2012, our pension plan expenses would also change. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have reduced the volatility in our healthcare costs provided to our retirees by adopting a defined dollar plan feature in fiscal year 2001. Under the defined dollar plan feature, our total annual liability for healthcare costs to any one retiree is limited to a fixed dollar amount, regardless of the nature or cost of the healthcare needs of that retiree. Our maximum future liability, therefore, cannot be increased by future changes in the cost of healthcare.

Restructuring activities. Our consolidated financial statements detail specific charges relating to restructuring activities as well as the actual spending that has occurred against the resulting accruals. Our pre-tax restructuring charges are estimates based on our preliminary assessments of (i) severance benefits to be granted to employees, based on known benefit formulas and identified job grades, (ii) costs to abandon certain facilities based on known lease costs of sub-rental income and (iii) impairment of assets as discussed above under “Value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles.” Because these accruals are estimates, they are subject to change as a result of deviations from initial restructuring plans or subsequent information that may come to our attention. For example, actual severance costs may be less than anticipated if employees voluntarily leave prior to the time at which they would be entitled to severance, or if anticipated legal hurdles in foreign jurisdictions prove to be less onerous than expected. In addition, unanticipated successes or difficulties in terminating leases and other contractual obligations may lead to changes in estimates. When such changes in estimates occur, they are reflected in our consolidated financial statements on our consolidated statements of operations line entitled “restructuring and contract termination charges, net.”

Dispositions. When we record the disposition of an asset or discontinuance of an operation, we make an estimate relative to the amount we expect to realize on the sale or disposition. This estimate is based on a variety of factors, including current interest in the market, alternative markets for the assets, and other relevant factors. If anticipated proceeds are less than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we record a loss. If anticipated proceeds are greater than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we recognize a gain net of expected contingencies when the transaction has been consummated. Accordingly, we may realize amounts different than were first estimated. During the fiscal year ended December 30, 2012, we recorded $2.4 million in pre-tax gains from the disposition of discontinued operations. Any such changes decrease or increase current earnings.

Income taxes. Our business operations are global in nature, and we are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Tax laws and tax rates vary substantially in these jurisdictions, and are subject to change given the political and economic climate in those countries. We report and pay income tax based on operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine both our current and deferred tax provisions. Any significant fluctuation in rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimates of taxes we anticipate either paying or recovering in the future to change. Such changes could lead to either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was enacted which retroactively reinstated and extended the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit ("Federal R&D Tax Credit") from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2013. As a result, we expect our income tax provision for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 will include an approximate $1.3 million discrete tax benefit relating to the previously unrecognized Federal R&D Tax Credits from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012.

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are operational decisions, transactions, facts and circumstances, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is not certain. Furthermore, our tax positions are 

51
periodically subject to challenge by taxing authorities throughout the world. Every quarter we review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in our judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority at a differing amount; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position. Any significant impact as a result of changes in underlying facts, law, tax rates, tax audit, or review could lead to adjustments to our income tax expense, our effective tax rate, or our cash flow.

Additionally, we have established valuation allowances against a variety of deferred tax assets, including state net operating loss carryforwards, state income tax credit carryforwards, and certain foreign tax attributes. Valuation allowances take into consideration our ability to use these deferred tax assets and reduce the value of such items to the amount that is deemed more likely than not to be recoverable. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results adjusted for the results of discontinued operations and incorporate assumptions about the future pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. These assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Changes in our assumptions regarding the appropriate amount for valuation allowances could result in the increase or decrease in the valuation allowance, with a corresponding charge or benefit to our tax provision.

Taxes have not been provided for unremitted earnings that we continue to consider indefinitely reinvested, the determination of which is based on our future operational and capital requirements. We continue to maintain our indefinite reinvestment assertion with regards to the remaining unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and therefore do not accrue U.S. tax for the repatriation of the remaining unremitted foreign earnings. As of December 30, 2012, the amount of foreign earnings that we have the intent and ability to keep invested outside the U.S. indefinitely and for which no U.S. tax cost has been provided was approximately $472.0 million. It is not practical to calculate the unrecognized deferred tax liability on those earnings.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk