PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

SEPARATION FROM THE E. W. SCRIPPS COMPANY  

Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. was formed on July 1, 2008 and became a publicly traded company as the result of the separation of The E. W. Scripps Company (our “Former Parent” or “E. W. Scripps”) into two publicly traded companies. The separation was completed through a tax free distribution of Scripps Networks Interactive shares to E. W. Scripps shareholders following the close of business on June 30, 2008.  

BUSINESS OVERVIEW  

Scripps Networks Interactive is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for television and the Internet with respected, high-profile television and interactive brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly useful content that focuses on specifically defined topics of interest.  

We manage our operations through our reportable operating segment, Lifestyle Media. Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, Food Network, Home and Garden Television (“HGTV”), Travel Channel, DIY Network (“DIY”), Cooking Channel and Great American Country (“GAC”). Lifestyle Media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home and travel related categories.  

We also have established lifestyle media brands internationally. Our lifestyle-oriented channels are available in the United Kingdom, other European markets, the Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific. The results for our international businesses are not separately identified as a reportable segment and are included within our corporate and other segment caption.  

Our businesses earn revenue principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including the sale and licensing of consumer products. Programming expenses, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are our primary operating costs.  

We seek to engage audiences that are highly desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the Internet and any other media platforms consumers choose. We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands through the creation of popular new programming and content, the use of new distribution platforms, such as mobile phones and video-on-demand, the licensing and sale of branded consumer products and through international expansion.  

3  

Table of Contents 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

Lifestyle Media  

Our Lifestyle Media business segment includes six national television networks and our portfolio of related interactive lifestyle brands. Five of the networks are available in high-definition; HGTV-HD, Food Network-HD, Travel Channel-HD, DIY Network-HD and Cooking Channel-HD. The segment generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising time on national television networks and interactive media platforms and from affiliate fees paid by cable television operators, direct-to-home satellite services and other distributors that carry our network programming. In 2012, revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees were approximately 69 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the Lifestyle Media segment. Our Lifestyle Media segment also earns revenue from the licensing of its content to third parties and the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools.  

The advertising revenue generated by our national television networks depends on the viewership ratings as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies and the advertising rates paid by advertisers for the company to deliver advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. HGTV, Food Network, and Cooking Channel and their targeted home and food programming categories appeal strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range, audience demographics that are traditionally valued by advertisers. Travel Channel and its targeted travel-based programming appeal to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range. GAC appeals to women viewers, while DIY Network typically has a higher percentage of adult male viewers. Advertising revenue can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programs, blocks of programming during defined periods of the day and seasonal demand of advertisers.  

Affiliate fee revenues are negotiated with individual cable television and direct-to-home satellite operators and other distributors. The negotiations typically result in multi-year carriage agreements with scheduled rate increases. As an incentive to obtain long-term distribution agreements for our networks, we have made cash payments to cable and direct-to-home satellite operators, provided an initial period during which a distributor’s affiliate fee payments are waived, or both. The amount of the fee we receive is determined by the number of subscribers with access to our network programming.  

Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our Lifestyle Media segment. Program amortization represented 43 percent of Lifestyle Media expenses in 2012 reflecting our continued investment in the improved quality and variety of programming on our networks. We incur sales and marketing expenses to support brand-building initiatives at all of our television networks.  

The Company’s lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media brands that are intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of food, home, travel and lifestyle content. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived primarily from the sale of display, banner, rich media and video advertising.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including our six network-branded websites, FoodNetwork.com, HGTV.com, TravelChannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, CookingChanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as the home websites for the segment’s television programming networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their broader lifestyle content categories. Features such as HGTV KitchenDesign, HGTV BathDesign, and DIY Network Home Improvement are intended to aggregate engaged audiences with interests in specific lifestyle topics. All of the segment’s interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming of which approximately 95 percent is owned by the Company. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on the Internet and other interactive distribution channels, including mobile and video-on-demand.  

The lifestyle websites also consist of other digital services including HGTVRemodels.com (formerly HGTVPro.com), which appeals to construction professionals and advanced do-it-yourself enthusiasts; Food.com (formerly Recipezaar.com), a recipe-sharing social networking website; FrontDoor.com, a local real estate search and consumer information site that features millions of home listings and thousands of videos. The lifestyle websites accounted for about 5 percent of the segment’s total revenue in 2012. The strategic focus of the lifestyle interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing the number of page views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and adding more video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through the placement of our video programming on national video streaming sites and developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites.  

We also have a 7.25 percent ownership interest in Fox-BRV Southern Sports Holdings LLC, which comprises the Sports South and Fox Sports Net South regional television networks, and 50 percent ownership interests in Food Network Magazine JV and HGTV Magazine JV.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Food Network  

Food Network is a leading cable and satellite television network that has been credited with redefining the television food genre. The network engages viewers with likable hosts and personalities who explore interesting and different ways to approach food and food-related topics. Food Network is available in approximately 100 million U.S. television households. The Company currently owns approximately 69 percent of the Food Network and is the managing partner. The Tribune Company has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 31 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

Despite some ratings softness experienced by the network in the fourth quarter, Food Network had its highest viewership levels in the history of the network in 2012. Programming highlights included Food Network Star; Diners, Drive-ins and Dives; Restaurant Impossible; and Chopped. Many of the programs on Food Network feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Anne Burrell, Guy Fieri, Bobby Flay, Robert Irvine, Giada De Laurentiis, and Rachael Ray.  

HGTV  

HGTV is America’s leader in home television programming and is one of cable and satellite television’s top-rated networks. HGTV reaches about 99 million domestic households via cable and direct satellite television services.  

HGTV television programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home and shelter-related topics. HGTV is television’s only network dedicated solely to such topics as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

The network was a top rated cable network in 2012 with solid prime-time ratings. Programming highlights included HGTV Design Star, House Hunters, and House Hunters International. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Green Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway, annual live coverage of the Rose Bowl Parade and successful competition programming like Design Star and All American Handyman.  

Travel Channel  

We acquired a controlling interest in the Travel Channel business in December 2009, giving the Company its third fully-distributed lifestyle network. Travel Channel is a leading travel multi-media brand, offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information to travel enthusiasts. The network has grown into one of the largest specialty cable networks in the U.S., available in approximately 95 million domestic television households.  

Programming highlights in 2012 included Baggage Battles, Hotel Impossible, Bizzare Foods, Off Limits, and Ghost Adventures.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is America’s only television network dedicated solely to presenting entertaining and informational programming and content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement, crafts, gardening, and landscaping. The network is available in approximately 58 million U.S. households via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services.  

Cooking Channel  

The Cooking Channel was launched in May 2010 to take advantage of the expanding interest in food and cooking programming in the United States. Cooking Channel caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking programming. The network delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids’ foods. Cooking Channel is available in about 60 million households. The Company owns a 69 percent controlling interest in the network.  

Great American Country (GAC)  

Distributed in the U.S. via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services, the network reaches about 63 million households with original programming, music videos and concerts. The network strives to provide its viewers with programming that celebrates the country lifestyle that includes the country music experience.  

Foodnetwork.com  

Foodnetwork.com is a top food and cooking destination on the web. With more than 62,000 recipes from television’s best celebrity chefs and our own kitchens, the site features an ever-growing collection of recipes, tips, how-to videos, menus and photo galleries that make cooking fun and delicious any time, from quick weekday dinners to easygoing weekend parties. The site is also Food Network fans’ go-to spot for the latest updates—and exclusive interactive features like live votes, restaurant information, chefs’ bios and blogs—highlighting popular shows such as Food Network Star, Next Iron Chef, Chopped and  

5  

Table of Contents 

 dozens more. Foodnetwork.com site utilizes Food Network’s programming library even as it evolves daily with original programming and new content around holidays such as Thanksgiving, Easter, Christmas, Cinco de Mayo and other events and topics of interest including healthy eating, the Super Bowl, grilling and family celebrations.  

Food.com  

Food.com is one of the largest online cooking communities, with 475,000 plus recipes and millions of reviews, photos and tips from everyday food lovers – plus, menu planning tools, contests and more. Food.com is the ultimate destination for easy meals and family-friendly recipes.  

Food Network Magazine (50% owned)  

Food Network Magazine brings passion, fun, and personalities around food to the table. Each issue features various Food Network talent throughout its pages and provides a behind-the-scenes look at their shows and kitchens. In addition, the magazine showcases great kitchen tools, food products, new restaurants, original recipes and the best food across America. Food Network Magazine appeals to food lovers and Food Network fans of all ages and culinary abilities, offering pages of accessible recipes and tips on entertaining.  

Cookingchanneltv.com  

Cookingchanneltv.com celebrates all things food. Whether a curious cook or an adventurous, on-the-move eater, there is something for all tastes, including fresh web series, how-tos, global cuisine info, pop food news, cocktails, road food, hidden gems and hot new trends – plus seasonal and holiday ideas.  

HGTV.com  

HGTV.com is one of the nation’s leading online home-and-garden destinations, with makeovers, how-tos, entertaining videos and thousands of designer photos. The website has more than 5.5 million unique visitors a month. The site features popular giveaways like HGTV Dream Home, HGTV Green Home and Urban Oasis and blogs like “Design Happens” where original video series like “Weekday Crafternoon” are released each week. The website also contains 3,000 plus room design examples in “Designers’ Portfolio” as well as more than 15,000 overall articles and thousands of short form videos. The site features content from the popular features like “Help Around the Home” and ongoing hot design trends. The site contains hundreds of full episodes and related content from on-air TV shows, like Property Brothers and Kitchen Cousins.  

HGTV Magazine (50% owned)  

HGTV Magazine gives readers inspiring, real-life solutions for all the things that homeowners deal with every day—from painting to pillows to property values—in an upbeat and engaging way. Inspired by HGTV’s programming, the magazine offers the value of insider advice from trusted experts, as well as the enjoyment of taking a look inside real people’s homes.  

DIYnetwork.com  

DIYnetwork.com consistently ranks among America’s top home and garden Internet destinations for entertaining videos, home improvement and overall project advice. The website features step-by-step instructions for home improvement projects, including more than 20,000 resources and more than 10,000 short-form videos. The site features a selection of video tips, an interactive program guide, episode finder, message boards, blogs and more. Also, included on the site are the interactive online experiences for DIY Network’s Blog Cabin Giveaway and Run My Renovation which provide consumers with a detailed look at building or remodeling of a home. The site contains hundreds of full episodes and related content from on-air TV shows, like the Yard and Bath Crashers.  

Travelchannel.com  

Travelchannel.com provides an interactive, content-rich user experience integrated with on-air programming. Beyond amazing images and award-winning video, Travelchannel.com continues to engage its users with extensive travel guides, community and two-screen events, while supporting Network initiatives with online sweepstakes and original content including “Trip of a Lifetime” and “Travel Like a VIP.” Nearly one quarter of all visits to Travelchannel.com now occur via a mobile device, and Apple’s App Store Editorial Team named the Travel Channel Layover Guide as one of its best iPad apps of 2012.  

International  

The Company also is executing its growth strategy internationally and seeks to become a world leader in lifestyle media and brand-related products and services. As of December 2012, the Company broadcasts 14 channels reaching approximately 86 million subscribers under the Food Network, HGTV, Travel Channel, DIY and Fine Living brands. The Company is considering entering or creating partnerships to accelerate its channel and brand growth in many international markets. In addition to its broadcast networks, the Company continues to license a portion of its programming to other broadcasters and can be seen in over 200 territories across the globe.  

The Company initiated its international channel strategy with the 2009 launch of Food Network on B-Sky-B in the United Kingdom, reaching 10 million households. In 2011, the Company made Food Network UK available in primetime on Freeview, a leading digital terrestrial television provider in the UK, thereby extending its reach to nearly every television household in the UK (approximately 26 million households). In 2012, the Company expanded its broadcast schedule on Freeview to a full 24 hours and is now the most watched lifestyle network in the United Kingdom. Food Network is also distributed via two additional channel feeds across Europe, Middle East and Africa as well as in Asia-Pacific.  

Travel Channel International Ltd. was acquired in 2012 along with its base of operations in London, England. Travel Channel International is broadcast in 21 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific.  

In 2011 the company acquired 50% of UKTV, a television entity that is co-owned by the BBC, and represents a portfolio of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle channels in the UK, including channels in the home and food categories. The company  

6  

Table of Contents 

 also continues to partner with Shaw Media on three very popular lifestyle channels in Canada: HGTV Canada, Food Network Canada and DIY Network Canada.  

Our international businesses earn revenues primarily from advertising sales, affiliate fees, and the licensing of programming to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our international businesses.  

Competition  

Cable and satellite network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our cable and satellite networks and websites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Our networks also compete with other television networks for distribution and affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators and other distributors.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 2,100 full-time equivalent employees.  

Executive Officers of the Company  

Our executive officers as of March 1, 2013 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS