ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations, and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. The risks and uncertainties our company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  

In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  

7  

Table of Contents 

If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline.  

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses.  

Each of our businesses provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent upon acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time. Audience preferences change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what content will be successful at any point. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content and services. If our Lifestyle Media businesses do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, revenues may decline and adversely affect our profitability.  

If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements with cable and satellite distributors at acceptable rates and terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.  

We enter into multi-year contracts for the distribution of our national television networks on cable and satellite television systems. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms or at rates similar to those in other affiliate contracts, we may lose distribution rights and/or affiliate fee revenues.  

These distribution agreements may also include “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The MFN clauses within our distribution agreements are generally complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion regarding our compliance with the respective clauses that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  

The loss of a significant affiliation arrangement on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our national television networks, thereby adversely affecting affiliate fee revenue, subjecting certain of our intangible assets to possible impairments, and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising or the rates we charge for such advertising.  

Three of our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the willingness of consumers to pay for such tiers as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers.  

Consolidation among cable television system operators has given the largest cable and satellite television systems considerable leverage in their relationship with programmers. The two largest cable television system operators provide service to approximately 40 percent of households receiving cable or satellite television service today, while the two largest satellite television operators provide service to an additional 30 percent of such households.  

Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators.  

Our businesses face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers, and failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of the businesses.  

We face substantial competition in our Lifestyle Media business from alternative providers of similar services. Our national television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and national television networks as well as with home video products and Internet usage, and they compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. Additionally, our national television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives including other broadcast and national television networks, the Internet, newspapers, radio stations, and billboards. Our Lifestyle Media branded websites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and must maintain popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Competition may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our business.  

Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our businesses.  

We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer and storage to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances such as video-on-demand, devices providing consumers the ability to view content from remote locations, and general preferences for user-generated and interactive content. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our services and  

8  

Table of Contents 

 content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, there could be a negative effect on our business.  

Our Lifestyle Media business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations, which could result in reduced distribution of certain of our national television networks.  

Our programming services, and the distributors of the services, including cable operators, satellite operators and Internet companies, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis (which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of channels) and/or require programmers to sell channels to distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other distributors have already introduced tiers, or more targeted channel packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of program services at the retail and/or wholesale level could reduce distribution of certain of our program services, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and could affect our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars or distribution fees.  

Changes in economic conditions in the United States, the regional economies in which we operate or in specific industry sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.  

Approximately 70 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012 were derived from marketing and advertising spending by businesses operating in the United States. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions, and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A decline in economic conditions could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues.  

The financial performance of our equity method investments could adversely impact our results of operations.  

We have investments in businesses that we account for under the equity method of accounting. These businesses are subject to laws, regulations or market conditions, or have risks inherent in their operations, that could adversely affect their performance. We do not control the day to day operations of our equity method investments, and thus the management of these businesses by our partners could also impact their performance. Any of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment.  

We are subject to risks related to our international operations.  

We have operations and investments in a number of foreign jurisdictions. The inherent economic risks of doing business in international markets include, among other things, changes in the economic environment, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers, foreign taxation, corruption, and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. Consequently, the local currencies in which our international operations conduct their business could change in value relative to the U.S. dollar, exposing our results to exchange rate fluctuations.  

We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies, and if we lose intellectual property protection, we may lose valuable assets.  

Our business depends on our intellectual property, including internally developed technology, data resources and brand identification. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights through a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark law and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We also depend on our trade names and domain names. We file applications for patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property registrations, but we may not be granted such intellectual property protections. In addition, even if such registrations are issued, they may not fully protect all important aspects of our business and there is no guarantee that our business does not or will not infringe upon intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in some foreign jurisdictions. In the future, we may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could potentially be expensive and possibly divert the attention of our management.  

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our service, technology and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, then we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer.  

9  

Table of Contents 

We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.  

From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business for a period of time. In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain intellectual property rights, our revenue could be negatively impacted.  

If we are unable to successfully integrate key acquisitions our business results could be negatively impacted.  

We may grow through acquisitions in certain markets. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations, diversions of management resources, debt incurred in financing such acquisitions and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, the integration and operations of an acquired business could be adversely impacted. Similarly, declines in business performance and the related effect on the fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets could trigger impairment charges. Impairment charges could materially affect our reported net earnings.  

Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments.  

The ongoing changes in U.S. and global credit and equity markets may make it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing.  

Ownership of our Common Voting Shares could inhibit potential changes of control and could potentially subject us to “controlled-group” status as it relates to pension law.  

We have two classes of shares: Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. Holders of Class A Common Shares are entitled to elect one-third of the board of directors, but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting Shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters.  

Approximately 93.5 percent of our Common Voting Shares and 28.6% of our Class A Common Shares are held of record by The Edward W. Scripps Trust. This Trust terminated on October 18, 2012, and all of its assets, including the Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares, will be distributed to certain descendants of Edward W. Scripps pursuant to the terms of the Trust for no consideration as soon as administratively practicable and under an applicable court order. Certain Trust beneficiaries, and certain members of the John P. Scripps family and trusts for their benefit, are signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement that governs the transfer and voting of Common Voting Shares held by the signatories. Upon distribution from the Trust, Common Voting Shares held under the agreement will represent approximately 91.9% of the Common Voting Shares. The Scripps Family Agreement does not apply to the Class A Common Shares that will be distributed to certain beneficiaries of the Trust, and those beneficiaries therefore will not be restricted by the agreement from selling or otherwise transferring Class A Common Shares. The Trust has advised the Company that they expect the shares to be distributed to the Trust beneficiaries in the next few months.  

Until such distribution, the Trust will continue to be the record holder of the Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. On January 22, 2013, under the provisions of its prior order sealing the proceedings, the Probate Court overseeing the liquidation of the Trust issued an order that generally provides that until distribution of the shares the Trustees shall vote (or enter into or decline to enter into binding agreements to vote) the Common Voting Shares held by the Trust as instructed by a vote conducted in accordance with the procedures of the Scripps Family Agreement. In the absence of instructions from a vote under the Scripps Family Agreement and the order, the Trustees may vote the Common Voting Shares in the manner they determine in their discretion, to be in the best interests of the Trust beneficiaries, so long as the vote does not relate to a change of control transaction. If the vote relates to a change of control transaction, the Trustees will not vote the Common Voting Shares held by the Trust in the absence of such instructions.  

After the Common Voting Shares are distributed from the Trust, the provisions of the Scripps Family Agreement will fully govern the transfer and voting of the shares held by the signatories, and the terms of the court order will cease to apply.  

As a result of the foregoing, the trustees of the Trust and the signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement have (and after the distribution of the shares from the Trust, the signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement will have) the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board of Directors and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common Shares. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, the market price of our Class A Common shares could be adversely affected.  

It is possible that our pension plan and the E. W. Scripps pension plan could be deemed to operate under a “controlled-group” status, potentially subjecting us to liability in the event that E. W. Scripps is unable to satisfy its long-term pension obligations.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Scripps Networks Interactive and E. W. Scripps.  

Two of the directors of Scripps Networks Interactive are also members of the E. W. Scripps Board of Directors. These two directors and another director of Scripps Networks Interactive are also trustees of The Edward W. Scripps Trust, which also holds shares of E. W. Scripps. These common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Scripps Networks Interactive’s and E. W. Scripps’ management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES