Part I 

     Item 1. Business 

 Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.  

 We own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets®, The Mills®, and community/lifestyle centers. As of December 31, 2012, we owned or held an interest in 317 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 160 malls, 63 Premium Outlets, 68 community/lifestyle centers, 13 Mills and 13 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 38 states and Puerto Rico. We also have reinstituted redevelopment and expansion initiatives with renovation and expansion projects currently underway at 24 properties in the U.S. with 56 new anchor and big box tenants having opened in 2012 and an additional 30 scheduled to open in 2013. Internationally, as of December 31, 2012, we had ownership interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, we owned a 28.9% equity stake in Klépierre SA, or Klépierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, more than 260 shopping centers located in 13 countries in Europe.  

 For a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2012, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.  

 Other Policies  

 The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

 Investment Policies   

 While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may also provide secured financing to or invest in equity or debt securities of other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. We must also derive at least 75% of our gross income directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. In addition, we must also derive at least 95% of our gross income from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.  

 Subject to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

 Financing Policies   

 Because our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, we regularly access the debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value, as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's line of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related  

3 

Table of Contents 

arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for our equity securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment grade ratings at all times, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future.  

 If our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital by offering equity or debt securities, creating joint ventures with existing ownership interests in properties, entering into joint venture arrangements for new development projects, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. If the Board of Directors determines to raise equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our securities. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.  

 We expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly do so.  

 The Operating Partnership has an unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility's initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion can be increased at our sole option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. On June 1, 2012, we entered into an additional unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Supplemental Facility, with an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion which can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion during its term. The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables.  

 We may also finance acquisitions through the following:   

•issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;  

•issuance of additional units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units;   

•issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;  

•issuance of other securities including unsecured notes and mortgage debt;   

•draws on our credit facilities; or  

•sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.   

 The Operating Partnership may also issue units to transferors of properties or other partnership interests which may permit the transferor to defer gain recognition for tax purposes.  

 We do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional indebtedness on such properties. Additionally, our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured note indentures and other contracts may limit our ability to borrow and contain limits on mortgage indebtedness we may incur.  

 Typically, we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining secured permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage lien on the property or properties in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which are common in the real estate industry, are structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent  

4 

Table of Contents 

company. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

 Conflict of Interest Policies   

 We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of our Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees and those of our subsidiaries. At least a majority of the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are significant stockholders and/or unitholders in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Audit and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors are comprised of independent members in accordance with the independence requirements of the NYSE. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be approved by a majority of our independent directors.  

 The sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and/or other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the Simons, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by Herbert Simon and David Simon contain covenants limiting their ability to participate in certain shopping center activities.   

 Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities   

 We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. Additionally, we may make or buy interests in loans for real estate properties owned by others.  

 Competition  

 The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with internet retailing sites and catalogs which provide retailers with distribution options beyond existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers including:   

•the quality, location and diversity of our properties;  

•our management and operational expertise;  

•our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders; and   

•our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances.   

5 

Table of Contents 

 Certain Activities  

 During the past three years, we have:   

•issued 7,627,368 shares of common stock upon the exchange of 8,279,993 units of the Operating Partnership;   

•issued 347,677 restricted shares of common stock and 1,470,679 long-term incentive performance units, or LTIP units, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 1998 Plan;  

•redeemed 2,000,000 units for $124.00 per unit in cash;  

•issued 278,763 units in exchange for the acquisition of a 100% interest in two outlet properties;   

•issued 427,146 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under the 1998 Plan, net of 76,969 shares used to fund withholding tax;  

•issued 6,670,589 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 7,871,276 shares of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock;  

•redeemed 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock;  

•issued 9,137,500 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $137.00 per share;   

•entered into the Credit Facility in October 2011 which provides an initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion and can be increased at our sole option to $5.0 billion during its term;  

•entered into the new Supplemental Facility on June 1, 2012, which provides an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion and can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion during its term;  

•borrowed a maximum amount of $3.1 billion under the credit facilities; the outstanding amount of borrowings under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2012 was $1.6 billion, of which $1.2 billion was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated borrowings and $259.2 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Yen-denominated borrowings;  

•provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders.   

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2012, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,500 persons at various properties and offices throughout the United States, of which approximately 2,100 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana and 100 were located at our Premium Outlets offices in Roseland, New Jersey.  

 Corporate Headquarters  

 Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is (317) 636-1600.  

 Available Information  

 We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 The following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in print form by request of our  

6 

Table of Contents 

Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.  

 In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  

 Executive Officers of the Registrant  

 The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2012.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 The executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors except for David Simon and Richard S. Sokolov who are subject to employment agreements which may call for certain payments upon termination. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E. Sterrett, James M. Barkley and David J. Contis, see Item 10 of this report.  

 Mr. Rulli serves as Simon Property's Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Rulli joined Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1988 and held various positions with MSA and Simon Property thereafter. Mr. Rulli became Chief Administrative Officer in 2007 and was promoted to Senior Executive Vice President in 2011.  

 Mr. Juster serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Juster joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.  

 Mr. Fivel serves as Simon Property's Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to rejoining Simon in 2011, Mr. Fivel served in a similar capacity with a large public registrant. Mr. Fivel was previously with Simon Property from 1993 to 1997.  

 Mr. Broadwater serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater joined Simon Property in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.  

7 

 Table of Contents  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors