Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company’s primary market risk exposures are interest rate risk and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate risk. The following table presents the Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2013, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity date. The table does not include extension options where available. Amounts include fair value purchase price allocation adjustments for assumed debt. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s reporting currency. The instruments’ actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars (CAD), Mexican pesos (MXN) and Chilean Pesos (CLP) as indicated by geographic description ($USD equivalent in millions). 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by $7.4 million in 2013 if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher. 

The following table presents the Company’s foreign investments and respective cumulative translation adjustment (“CTA”) as of December 31, 2013. Investment amounts are shown in their respective local currencies and the U.S. dollar equivalents and CTA balances are shown in US dollars: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The foreign currency exchange risk has been partially mitigated, but not eliminated, through the use of local currency denominated debt. The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

35 

 CTA results from currency fluctuations between local currency and the U.S. dollar during the period in which the Company held its investment and is recorded as a component of AOCI on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTA amounts are subject to future changes resulting from ongoing fluctuations in the respective foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates are impacted by many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Any change could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the Company’s CTA balance. Based on the Company’s foreign investment balances at December 31, 2013, a favorable overall exchange rate fluctuation of 10% would decrease the aggregate CTA net loss balance by approximately $92.2 million, whereas, an unfavorable overall exchange rate fluctuation of 10% would increase the aggregate CTA net loss balance by approximately $75.4 million. 

Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to release CTA balances into earnings when the Company has substantially liquidated its investment in a foreign entity. During 2013, the Company began selling properties within its Latin American portfolio and the Company may, in the near term, substantially liquidate all of its investments in this portfolio which will require the then unrealized loss on foreign currency translation to be recognized as a charge against earnings. At December 31, 2013, the aggregate CTA net loss balance relating to the Company’s Latin American portfolio is $114.7 million. Based on the Company’s foreign investment balances in Latin Americas at December 31, 2013, a favorable overall exchange rate fluctuation of 10% would decrease the aggregate CTA net loss balance by approximately $48.2 million, whereas, an unfavorable overall exchange rate fluctuation of 10% would increase the aggregate CTA net loss balance by approximately $39.4 million. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data