Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had interests in 852 shopping center properties (the “Combined Shopping Center Portfolio”), aggregating 124.5 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) and 575 other property interests, primarily through the Company’s preferred equity investments and other real estate investments, totaling 13.2 million square feet of GLA, for a grand total of 1,427 properties aggregating 137.7 million square feet of GLA, located in 42 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile and Peru. 

The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

The Company’s strategy is to be the premier owner and operator of neighborhood and community shopping centers through investments primarily in the U.S. and Canada. To achieve this strategy the Company is (i) striving to transform the quality of its portfolio by disposing of lesser quality assets and acquiring larger higher quality properties in key markets identified by the Company, (ii) simplifying its business by exiting Mexico, South America and reducing the number of joint venture investments and (iii) pursuing redevelopment opportunities within its portfolio to increase overall value. This strategy entailed a shift away from non-retail assets. These investments included non-retail preferred equity investments, marketable securities, mortgages on non-retail properties and several urban mixed-use properties. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had substantially completed the sale of these investments. The Company also has an active capital recycling program of selling retail assets deemed non-strategic and properties within the Company’s Latin American portfolio. If the Company accepts sales prices for these assets that are less than their net carrying values, the Company would be required to take impairment charges. Additionally, the Latin America dispositions could represent the substantial liquidation of these foreign investments, which will require the then unrealized loss on foreign currency translation to be recognized as a charge against earnings (see Item 7A – Foreign Investments).  

The Company intends to continue to strengthen its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time, providing it the necessary flexibility to invest opportunistically and selectively, primarily focusing on neighborhood and community shopping centers. In addition, the Company has an institutional management business with domestic and foreign institutional partners for the purpose of investing in neighborhood and community shopping centers. In an effort to further its simplification strategy, the Company is actively pursuing opportunities to reduce its institutional management business through partner buy-outs, property acquisitions from institutional joint ventures and/or third party property sales.  

The following highlights the Company’s significant transactions, events and results that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2013: 

Portfolio Information: 

    ●  Net income available to common shareholders increased by $5.3 million to $178.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $172.7 million for the corresponding period in 2012. 

    ●  Funds from operations (“FFO”) as adjusted increased from $1.26 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $1.33 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2013 (see additional disclosure on FFO beginning on page 32). 

    ●  Same Property net operating income (“NOI”) increased 3.4% for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012; excluding the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuation, this increase would have been 4.1% (see additional disclosure on NOI beginning on page 33). 

    ●  Occupancy rose from 94.0% at December 31, 2012 to 94.6% at December 31, 2013 in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

    ●  Occupancy rose from 93.9% at December 31, 2012 to 94.9% at December 31, 2013 for the U.S. combined shopping center portfolio. 

    ●  Recognized U.S. cash-basis leasing spreads of 7.7%; new leases increased 15.6% and renewals/options increased 5.9%. 

    ●  Executed 2,473 leases, renewals and options totaling approximately 9.9 million square feet in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

17 

Acquisition Activity (see Footnotes 3 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements): 

    ●  Acquired 32 shopping center properties and eight outparcels comprising an aggregate 4.1 million square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of $724.5 million including the assumption of $279.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering nine of the properties. The Company acquired five of these properties for an aggregate sales price of $346.4 million from joint ventures in which the Company held noncontrolling ownership interests. The Company evaluated these transactions pursuant to the Financial Accounting Statements Boards (“FASB”) Consolidation guidance. As such, the Company recognized an aggregate net gain of $21.7 million, before income tax, from the fair value adjustment associated with its original ownership due to a change in control. 

Disposition Activity (see Footnotes 4 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements): 

    ●  During 2013, the Company disposed of 36 operating properties and three outparcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $279.5 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of $25.4 million and impairment charges of $61.9 million, before income taxes and noncontrolling interests. 

    ●  During 2013, the Company sold nine land parcels for an aggregate sales price of $18.2 million in separate transactions. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of $11.6 million, before income taxes. 

    ●  Also during 2013, the Company sold eight properties in its Latin American portfolio for an aggregate sales price of $115.4 million. These transactions, which are included in Discontinued Operations, resulted in an aggregate gain of $23.3 million, before income taxes, and aggregate impairment charges of $26.9 million (including the release of the cumulative foreign currency translation loss of $7.8 million associated with the sale of the Company’s interest in two properties within Brazil, which represents a full liquidation of the Company’s investment in Brazil), before income taxes and noncontrolling interests.  

    ●  During 2013, the Company reduced its non-retail book values by $337.3 million, of which $304.7 million was monetized. As of December 31, 2013, these investments had a book value of $61.2 million. 

Joint Venture Investments Activity (see Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements): 

    ●  During June 2013, the Intown portfolio was sold for a sales price of $735.0 million which included the assignment of $609.2 million in debt. This transaction resulted in a deferred gain to the Company of $21.7 million due to the Company’s continued guarantee of a portion of the assumed debt.  

    ●  Also during 2013, Kimco increased its ownership interest in three institutional joint ventures through the acquisition of additional equity interests totaling $153.0 million: Kimco Income Fund (KIF) joint venture from 15.2% to 39.5%; the Kimco Income REIT (KIR) joint venture from 45.0% to 48.6%; and the Kimstone joint venture (formerly the Kimco-UBS joint venture) from 18.0% to 33.3%. 

    ●  During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company and its joint venture partner sold their noncontrolling ownership interest in a joint venture which held interests in 84 operating properties located throughout Mexico for $603.5 million (including the assignment of $301.2 million in debt). This transaction resulted in a net gain to the Company of $78.2 million, before income taxes of $25.1 million. 

    ●  Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2013, joint ventures in which the Company held noncontrolling interests sold 20 operating properties located throughout Mexico and Chile for $341.9 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate net gain to the Company of $22.4 million, after income tax.  

Capital Activity (for additional details see Liquidity and Capital Resources below): 

    ●  During 2013, the Company issued $350.0 million of 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes at an interest rate of 3.125% payable semi-annually in arrears which are scheduled to mature in June 2023. Net proceeds from the issuance were $344.7 million, after related transaction costs of $0.5 million.  

    ●  Additionally, during 2013, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company issued $200.0 million Canadian denominated (“CAD”) Series 4 unsecured notes on a private placement basis in Canada. The notes bear interest at 3.855% and are scheduled to mature on August 4, 2020. These proceeds were used to repay the Company’s CAD $200.0 million 5.180% unsecured notes, which matured on August 16, 2013. 

    ●  Also during 2013, the Company repaid (i) its $100.0 million 6.125% senior unsecured notes, which matured in January 2013, (ii) its $75.0 million 4.70% senior unsecured notes, which matured in June 2013 and (iii) its $100.0 million 5.190% senior unsecured notes which matured on October 1, 2013.  

    ●  The Company also entered into a new five year 1.0 billion Mexican peso (“MXN”) term loan which matures in March 2018. This term loan bears interest at a rate equal to TIIE (Equilibrium Interbank Interest Rate) plus 1.35%. The Company used these proceeds to repay its 1.0 billion MXN term loan, which matured in March 2013 and bore interest at a fixed rate of 8.58%.  

18 

Impairments (see Footnote 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements): 

    ●  In connection with the Company’s efforts to market certain assets and management’s assessment as to the likelihood and timing of such potential transactions, the Company recognized impairment charges of $190.2 million (including $98.8 million which is classified within discontinued operations), before income tax benefit and noncontrolling interests. (see Footnote 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

    ●  In addition to the impairment charges above, various unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling interests recognized impairment charges relating to certain properties during 2013. The Company’s share of these charges was $29.5 million (see Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

    ●  Also during 2013, the Company acquired the remaining interest in a portfolio of office properties from a preferred equity investment in which the Company held a noncontrolling interest and recognized a change in control loss of $9.6 million in connection with the fair value adjustment associated with the Company’s original ownership. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, valuation of joint venture investments and other investments, realizability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures, marketable securities and other investments. The Company’s reported net earnings are directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, straight-line rent, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net earnings are directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships, where applicable), assumed debt and redeemable units issued at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date. Fair value is determined based on an exit price approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. If, up to one year from the acquisition date, information regarding fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation on a retrospective basis. The Company expenses transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.  

19 

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

  Buildings and building improvements    15 to 50 years 

  Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements    Terms of leases or useful 

   (including certain identified intangible assets)     lives, whichever is shorter 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net earnings. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and unleveraged) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held-for-sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and, where applicable, are based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and, due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. The Company, on a limited selective basis, obtained unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.  

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

The Company’s estimated fair values are based upon a discounted cash flow model for each joint venture that includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and, where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. Capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads utilized in these models are based upon rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates.  

Realizability of Deferred Tax Assets and Uncertain Tax Positions 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes on the income from its activities relating to its TRS activities and subject to local taxes on certain non-U.S. investments. The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized based on future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the years in which temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the changes are enacted. 

A reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance is required, if based on the evidence available, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. 

20 

The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed. Information about an enterprise's current financial position and its results of operations for the current and preceding years is supplemented by all currently available information about future years. The Company must use judgment in considering the relative impact of negative and positive evidence.  

The Company believes, when evaluating deferred tax assets within its taxable REIT subsidiaries, special consideration should be given to the unique relationship between the Company as a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship exists primarily to protect the REIT’s qualification under the Code by permitting, within certain limits, the REIT to engage in certain business activities in which the REIT cannot directly participate. As such, the REIT controls which and when investments are held in, or distributed or sold from, its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship distinguishes a REIT and taxable REIT subsidiary from an enterprise that operates as a single, consolidated corporate taxpayer.  

The Company primarily utilizes a twenty year projection of pre-tax book income and taxable income as positive evidence to overcome any negative evidence. Although items of income and expense utilized in the projection are objectively verifiable there is also significant judgment used in determining the duration and timing of events that would impact the projection. Based upon the Company’s analysis of negative and positive evidence the Company will make a determination of the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. If future income projections do not occur as forecasted, the Company will reevaluate the need for a valuation allowance. In addition, the Company can employ additional strategies to realize its deferred tax assets, including transferring a greater portion of its property management business to the TRS, sale of certain built-in gain assets, and reducing intercompany debt.  

The Company recognizes and measures benefits for uncertain tax positions, which requires significant judgment from management. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for any uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in the Company’s income tax expense in the period in which a change is made, which could have a material impact on operating results (see Footnote 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Results of Operations 

Comparison 2013 to 2012 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Revenues from rental properties increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2013 and 2012, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 of $46.5 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012, (ii) an overall increase in the consolidated shopping center portfolio occupancy to 94.0% at December 31, 2013, as compared to 93.4% at December 31, 2012 and the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, tenant buyouts and net growth in the current portfolio, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, of $23.7 million as compared to the corresponding period in 2012, and (iii) an increase in revenues relating to the Company’s Latin America portfolio of $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012.  

  (2)  Rental property expenses include (i) rent expense relating to ground lease payments for which the Company is the lessee; (ii) real estate tax expense for consolidated properties for which the Company has a controlling ownership interest and (iii) operating and maintenance expense, which consists of property related costs including repairs and maintenance costs, roof repair, landscaping, parking lot repair, snow removal, utilities, property insurance costs, security and various other property related expenses. Rental property expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012, primarily due to (i) an increase in real estate taxes of $6.9 million, (ii) an increase in repairs and maintenance costs of $5.7 million, (iii) an increase in snow removal costs of $2.3 million, (iv) an increase in property services of $1.7 million and (v) an increase in utilities expense of $1.3 million, primarily due to acquisitions of properties during 2013 and 2012, partially offset by (vi) a decrease in insurance expense of $2.9 million due to a decrease in insurance claims.  

  (3)  Depreciation and amortization increased for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012, primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2013 and 2012 and (ii) expensing of unamortized tenant costs related to tenant vacancies prior to their lease expiration, partially offset by (iii) certain operating property dispositions during 2013 and 2012. 

21 

General and administrative costs include employee-related expenses (salaries, bonuses, equity awards, benefits, severance costs and payroll taxes), professional fees, office rent, travel expense, and other company-specific expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $4.0 million to $127.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $123.9 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily a result of an increase in professional fees related to the Company’s response to a subpoena from the Enforcement Division of the SEC and a parallel investigation by the DOJ, in connection with the investigation of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (see Item 3).  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recognized impairment charges of $190.2 million, of which $98.8 million, before income taxes, is included in discontinued operations. These impairment charges consist of (i) $175.6 million related to adjustments to property carrying values, primarily due to sales or pending sales of properties, (ii) $10.4 million related to a cost method investment, (iii) $1.0 million related to certain joint venture investments and (iv) $3.2 million related to a preferred equity investment. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company recognized impairment charges related to adjustments to property carrying values of $59.6 million, of which $49.3 million, before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, is included in discontinued operations. The Company’s estimated fair values for these assets were primarily based upon (i) estimated sales prices from third party offers relating to property carrying values and joint venture investments and (ii) a discounted cash flow model relating to the Company’s cost method investment. The Company does not have access to the unobservable inputs used by the third parties to determine these estimated fair values. The discounted cash flows model includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. These cash flows were comprised of unobservable inputs which include forecasted revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. The capitalization rate of 6.0% and discount rate of 9.5% which were utilized in this model were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective investments. Based on these inputs the Company determined that its valuation of these investments was classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The property carrying value impairment charges resulted from the Company’s efforts to market certain assets and management’s assessment as to the likelihood and timing of such potential transactions. 

Mortgage financing income decreased $3.2 million to $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $7.5 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income resulting from the repayment of certain mortgage receivables during 2013 and 2012. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased $15.0 million to $17.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $2.0 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily due to an increase in realized gains of $12.1 million resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2013 and an increase in cash distributions received in excess of basis related to cost method investments of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012. 

Other expense, net decreased $7.2 million to $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. This change is primarily due to (i) increases in gains on land sales of $8.2 million for year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012 and (ii) an increase in gains on foreign currency of $1.5 million relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by (iii) an increase in other corporate expenses of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012. 

Interest expense decreased $11.8 million to $213.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $225.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. This decrease is primarily related to lower interest rates on borrowings during 2013, as compared to 2012. 

Provision for income taxes, net increased $17.6 million to $34.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $16.9 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in foreign taxes of $23.6 million primarily relating to the sale of the Company’s joint venture interest in a portfolio of 84 operating properties in Mexico, (ii) an increase in income tax expense of $9.1 million relating to a change in control gain resulting from the purchase of a partner’s noncontrolling joint venture interest, (iii) a tax provision of $6.0 million resulting from incremental earnings due to increased profitability from properties within the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries and (iv) a tax provision of $2.4 million related to gains on sale of certain marketable securities, partially offset by (v) a partial release of the deferred tax valuation allowance of $8.7 million related to FNC Realty Corp. (“FNC”) based on the Company’s estimated future earnings of FNC, (vi) an increase in income tax benefit of $7.9 million related to impairments taken during 2013, as compared to the 2012, and (vii) an increase in tax benefit of $9.4 million relating to a decrease in equity in income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment. 

Equity in income of joint ventures, net increased $95.8 million to $208.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $112.9 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase in gains of $120.7 million resulting from the sale of properties within various joint venture investments, primarily located in Mexico during 2013, as compared to 2012, (ii) an increase in equity in income from three joint ventures of $4.0 million due to the Company’s increase in ownership percentage and (iii) incremental earnings due to increased profitability from properties within the Company’s joint venture program, partially offset by (iv) an increase in impairment charges of $18.4 million recognized against certain joint venture investment properties primarily located in Mexico, resulting from pending property sales, taken during 2013, as compared to 2012, (v) the recognition of $7.5 million in income on the sale of certain air rights at a property within one of the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada during 2012 and (vi) a decrease in equity in income of $2.6 million from the Company’s InTown Suites investment during 2013, as compared to 2012, resulting from the sale of this investment in 2013.  

22 

During June 2013, the Company sold its unconsolidated investment in the InTown portfolio for a sales price of $735.0 million which included the assignment of $609.2 million in debt. This transaction resulted in a deferred gain to the Company of $21.7 million. The Company maintains its guarantee on a portion of the debt ($139.7 million as of December 31, 2013) assumed by the buyer. The guarantee is collateralized by the buyer’s ownership interest in the portfolio. The Company is entitled to a guarantee fee, for the initial term of the loan, which is scheduled to mature in December 2015. The guarantee fee is calculated based upon the difference between LIBOR plus 1.15% and 5.0% per annum multiplied by the outstanding amount of the loan. Additionally, the Company has entered into a commitment to provide financing up to the outstanding amount of the guaranteed portion of the loan for five years past the date of maturity. This commitment can be in the form of extensions with the current lender or a new lender or financing directly from the Company to the buyer. Due to this continued involvement, the Company deferred its gain until such time that the guarantee and commitment expire. 

During 2013, the Company acquired four properties from joint ventures in which the Company had noncontrolling interests. The Company recorded an aggregate net gain on change in control of interests of $21.7 million related to the fair value adjustment associated with its original ownership of these properties. During 2012, the Company acquired four properties from joint ventures in which the Company had noncontrolling interests. The Company recorded an aggregate gain on change in control of interests of $15.6 million related to the fair value adjustment associated with its original ownership.  

Equity in income from other real estate investments, net decreased $22.3 million to $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $53.4 million for the corresponding period in 2012. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease of $23.5 million in equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture primarily due to start-up costs associated with the purchase of additional Albertson’s stores from SuperValu Inc. during 2013, as compared to 2012.  

During 2013, the Company disposed of 36 operating properties and three out-parcels in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $279.5 million. These transactions, which are included in Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income, resulted in an aggregate gain of $25.4 million and impairment charges of $61.9 million, before income taxes.  

Additionally, during 2013, the Company sold eight properties in its Latin American portfolio for an aggregate sales price of $115.4 million. These transactions, which are included in Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income, resulted in an aggregate gain of $23.3 million, before income taxes, and aggregate impairment charges of $26.9 million (including the release of the cumulative foreign currency translation loss of $7.8 million associated with the sale of the Company’s interest in two properties within Brazil, which represents a full liquidation of the Company’s investment in Brazil), before income taxes and noncontrolling interests.  

During 2012, the Company disposed of 62 operating properties and two outparcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $418.9 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of $85.9 million and impairment charges of $22.5 million, before income taxes, which is included in Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2012, the Company sold a previously consolidated operating property to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 20% noncontrolling interest for a sales price of $55.5 million. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $10.0 million, of which the Company deferred $2.0 million due to its continued involvement. This gain has been recorded as Gain on sale of operating properties, net of tax in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Net income attributable to the Company decreased $29.8 million to $236.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to $266.1 million for the corresponding period in 2012. On a diluted per share basis, net income attributable to the Company was $0.43 for 2013, as compared to net income of $0.42 for 2012. These changes are primarily attributable to (i) additional incremental earnings due to increased profitability from the Company’s operating properties and the acquisition of operating properties during 2013 and 2012, (ii) an increase in equity in income of joint ventures, net primarily due to gains on sales of operating properties sold within various joint venture portfolios during 2013 and (iii) an increase in gains on sale of marketable securities during 2013, partially offset by (iv) an increase in impairment charges recognized during the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012 and (v) a decrease in gains on sale of operating properties. The 2012 diluted per share results were decreased by a reduction in net income available to common shareholders of $21.7 million resulting from the deduction of original issuance costs associated with the redemption of the Company’s 6.65% Class F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 7.75% Class G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. 

23 

Comparison 2012 to 2011 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)  Revenues from rental properties increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2012 and 2011, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 of $50.9 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, (ii) an increase in revenues relating to the Company’s Latin American portfolio of $8.0 million and (iii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, tenant buyouts and overall growth in the current portfolio, providing incremental revenues of $0.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in revenues of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, primarily resulting from the partial sale of certain properties during 2012 and 2011. 

  (2)  Rental property expenses include (i) rent expense relating to ground lease payments for which the Company is the lessee; (ii) real estate tax expense for consolidated properties for which the Company has a controlling ownership interest and (iii) operating and maintenance expense, which consists of property related costs including repairs and maintenance costs, roof repair, landscaping, parking lot repair, snow removal, utilities, property insurance costs, security and various other property related expenses. Rental property expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, primarily due to (i) an increase in real estate taxes of $6.3 million, primarily due to acquisitions of properties during 2012 and 2011, (ii) an increase in repairs and maintenance costs of $4.1 million, primarily due to acquisitions of properties during 2012 and 2011 (iii) an increase in insurance premiums and claims of $1.7 million and (iv) an increase in utilities of $2.0 million, partially offset by (v) a decrease in snow removal costs of $5.1 million and (vi) a decrease in rent expense of $1.1 million.  

  (3)  Depreciation and amortization increased for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2012 and 2011, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacancies, partially offset by (iv) certain operating property dispositions during 2012 and 2011. 

Management and other fee income increased $2.2 million to $37.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $35.3 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This increase is due to an increase in property management fees of $0.8 million, primarily due to the acquisitions of properties within the Company’s joint venture portfolio during 2012 and 2011, and an increase in transaction related fees of $1.4 million recognized during 2012, as compared to 2011. 

General and administrative costs include employee-related expenses (salaries, bonuses, equity awards, benefits, severance costs and payroll taxes), professional fees, office rent, travel expense, and other company-specific expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $5.3 million to $123.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $118.6 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This increase is primarily a result of (i) an increase of $2.6 million in severance costs related to the departure of an executive officer in January 2012, (ii) an increase in professional and consulting fees of $2.1 million, primarily due to increased transactional activity, and (iii) an increase in other personnel related costs during 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. 

During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company recognized impairment charges of $59.6 million, $49.3 million of which is included in discontinued operations, before income tax benefit and noncontrolling interest. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized impairment charges of $32.8 million, $19.7 million of which is included in discontinued operations, before income tax benefit and noncontrolling interest. These impairments were primarily calculated based on the usage of estimated sales prices and comparable sales information as inputs. The Company determined that its valuation in these assets was classified within Level 3 of the FASB’s fair value hierarchy. These impairment charges resulted from the Company’s efforts to market certain assets and management’s assessment as to the likelihood and timing of such potential transactions. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased $13.8 million to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $15.8 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This decrease is primarily due to (i) the Company’s sale of its investment in Valad notes during 2011, resulting in a decrease in interest income of $6.2 million, (ii) a decrease in other investment income of $6.4 million relating to the receipt of cash distributions during 2011 in excess of the Company’s carrying value of a cost method investment, (iii) a reduction in interest income of $0.5 million due to repayments of notes in 2012 and 2011 and (iv) a decrease in gains on sales of securities of $0.5 million.  

24 

Other expense, net increased $3.7 million to $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $4.0 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This change is primarily due to (i) an increase in acquisition related costs of $3.1 million relating to an increase in transactional activity, (ii) a decrease in gains on foreign currency of $2.4 million relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by (iii) an increase of $2.4 million in gains on land sales during 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. 

Interest expense increased $4.0 million to $225.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $221.7 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This increase is primarily related to a decrease in capitalization of interest due to the placement of certain development and redevelopment properties into service during 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. 

During 2011, the Company sold a merchant building property to an unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a noncontrolling interest for a sales price of $37.6 million resulting in a pretax gain of $12.1 million after a deferral of $2.1 million due to the Company’s continued involvement in the property.  

Provision for income taxes, net decreased by $8.9 million to $16.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $25.8 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This decrease is primarily due to (i) an increase in income tax benefit of $10.2 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, (ii) a decrease in the income tax provision expense of $5.7 million in connection with a gain on sale of a development property during 2011, (iii) a decrease in tax provision of $2.8 million resulting from the receipt of a cash distribution during 2011 in excess of the Company’s carrying value of a cost method investment and (iv) a decrease in tax provision of $2.7 million resulting from a decrease in equity in income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment during 2012, as compared to 2011, partially offset by (v) an increase in foreign withholding taxes of $5.4 million primarily resulting from unrealized foreign exchange gains recognized for Mexican tax purposes on U.S. denominated mortgage debt within the Company’s Latin American property portfolio. 

Equity in income of joint ventures, net increased $49.4 million to $112.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $63.5 million for the corresponding period in 2011. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase in gains on sale and promote income recognized of $12.6 million, (ii) the recognition of $7.5 million in income on the sale of certain air rights at a property within one of the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada, (iii) an increase in equity in income of $5.9 million from the Company’s InTown Suites investment primarily resulting from increased operating profitability, (iv) the recognition of $2.1 million in income resulting from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in an unconsolidated joint venture, (v) a decrease in impairment charges of $3.2 million resulting from fewer impairment charges recognized against certain joint venture properties during the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, (vi) a decrease in equity in loss of $4.0 million resulting from the disposition of a portfolio of properties during 2011, (vii) an increase in equity in income of $6.0 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada (viii) an increase in equity in income of $3.7 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Mexico and (ix) incremental earnings due to increased profitability from properties within the Company’s joint venture program.  

During 2012, the Company acquired four properties from joint ventures in which the Company had noncontrolling interests. The Company recorded an aggregate gain on change in control of interests of $15.6 million related to the fair value adjustment associated with its original ownership. During 2011, the Company acquired one property from a joint venture in which the Company had a noncontrolling interest. The Company recorded an aggregate gain on change in control of interests of $0.6 million related to the fair value adjustment associated with its original ownership. 

During 2012, the Company disposed of 62 operating properties and two outparcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $418.9 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of $85.9 million and impairment charges of $22.5 million, before income taxes, which is included in Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2011, the Company disposed of 27 operating properties, one development property and one outparcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of $124.9 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of $17.3 million and aggregate impairment charges of $16.9 million, before income taxes, which is included in Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  

During 2011, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of $6.1 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received $1.4 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of $0.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as Income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2012, the Company sold a previously consolidated operating property to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 20% noncontrolling interest for a sales price of $55.5 million. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $10.0 million, of which the Company deferred $2.0 million due to its continued involvement. This gain has been recorded as Gain on sale of operating properties, net of tax in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

25 

Net income attributable to the Company increased $97.0 million to $266.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to $169.1 million for the corresponding period in 2011. On a diluted per share basis, net income attributable to the Company was $0.42 for 2012, as compared to net income of $0.27 for 2011. These increases are primarily attributable to (i) additional incremental earnings due to increased profitability from the Company’s operating properties and the acquisition of operating properties during 2012 and 2011, (ii) an increase in gains on disposition of operating properties and change in control of interests, (iii) an increase in equity in income of joint ventures, net primarily due to gains on sales of operating properties sold within various joint venture portfolios during 2012 and (iv) a decrease in provision for income taxes, partially offset by (v) an increase in impairment charges recognized during the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the corresponding period in 2011, (vi) a decrease in interest, dividends and other investment income resulting primarily from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2011 and (vii) a decrease in gain on sale of development properties recognized during 2012, as compared to 2011. The 2012 diluted per share results were decreased by a reduction in net income available to common shareholders of $21.7 million resulting from the deduction of original issuance costs associated with the redemption of the Company’s 6.65% Class F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 7.75% Class G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, mortgage and construction loan financing, borrowings under term loans and immediate access to an unsecured revolving credit facility with bank commitments of $1.75 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2013 and 2012, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) operational distributions from the Company’s joint venture programs. 

Cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $570.0 million, as compared to $479.1 million for the comparable period in 2012. The change of $90.9 million is primarily attributable to (i) increased operational distributions from joint ventures and other real estate investments, (ii) changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of payments and (iii) higher operational income from operating properties including properties acquired during 2013 and 2012, partially offset by (iv) changes in other operating assets and liabilities due to timing of payments and receipts. 

Investing Activities 

Cash flows provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $72.2 million, as compared to cash flows used for investing activities of $51.0 million for the comparable period in 2012. This change of $123.2 million resulted primarily from (i) an increase in reimbursements of investments and advances to real estate joint ventures of $252.3 million, primarily due to the sale of certain properties within joint ventures, (ii) a decrease in acquisition of operating real estate of $88.3 million, (iii) an increase in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $26.3 million, partially offset by (iv) an increase in investments and advances to real estate joint ventures of $76.7 million, (v) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of operating properties of $63.7 million, (vi) an increase in investment in marketable securities of $33.6 million, (vii) a decrease in investment/collection, net of mortgage loan receivable of $29.9 million, (viii) an increase in other investments of $20.4 million and (ix) an increase in other real estate investments of $17.9 million. 

Acquisitions of Operating Real Estate 

During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company expended $354.3 million and $442.5 million, respectively, towards the acquisition of operating real estate properties. The Company’s strategy is to continue to transform its operating portfolio through its capital recycling program by acquiring what the Company believes are high quality US retail properties and disposing of lesser quality assets. The Company anticipates to acquire approximately $500.0 million to $1.0 billion of operating properties during 2014. The Company intends to fund these acquisitions with proceeds from sales of the Company’s non-strategic properties, cash flow from operating activities, assumption of mortgage debt, if applicable, and availability under the Company’s revolving line of credit.  

26 

Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company expended $107.3 million and $109.9 million, respectively, towards improvements to operating real estate. These amounts are made up of the following (in thousands): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company capitalized interest of $1.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively, and capitalized payroll of $1.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in connection with the Company’s improvements of real estate.  

The Company has an ongoing program to redevelop and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company is actively pursuing redevelopment opportunities within its operating portfolio which it believes will increase the overall value by bringing in new tenants and improving the assets value. The Company has identified three categories of redevelopment, (i) large scale redevelopment, which involves demolishing and building new square footage, (ii) value creation redevelopment, which includes the subdivision of large anchor spaces into multiple tenant layouts, and (iii) creation of out-parcels and pads which are located in the front of the shopping center properties. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these redevelopment projects and re-tenanting efforts during 2014 will be approximately $150 million to $200 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving line of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company expended $296.6 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received $440.1 million from reimbursements of investments and advances to real estate joint ventures, including the increase in ownership percentages of the Kimstone, KIR and KIF joint ventures, the refinancing of debt and sales of properties, inclusive of the sale of the Intown portfolio and the American Industries portfolio. (See Footnote 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.) 

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company received net proceeds of $385.8 million relating to the sale of various operating properties. (See Footnote 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flow used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $635.4 million, as compared to $399.1 million for the comparable period in 2012. This change of $236.3 million resulted primarily from (i) a decrease in proceeds from issuance of stock of $766.5 million, (ii) an increase in net repayments/ borrowings under unsecured term loan/notes of $109.3 million, (iii) an increase in net repayments/borrowings under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facility of $66.3 million and (iv) an increase in dividends paid of $17.6 million, partially offset by, (v) the redemption of the Company’s 6.65% Class F Preferred Stock and 7.75% Class G Preferred Stock of $635.0 million during 2012, (vi) a decrease in repurchases of common stock of $30.9 million, (vii) a decrease in principal payments of $30.0 million, and (viii) an increase in proceeds from mortgage/construction loan financing of $21.2 million. 

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. The Company continues to pursue borrowing opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a continuing trend that although pricing remains dependent on specific deal terms, generally spreads for non-recourse mortgage financing have stabilized from levels a year ago. The unsecured debt markets are functioning well and credit spreads are at manageable levels. The Company continues to assess 2014 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if credit market conditions weaken.  

Debt maturities for 2014 consist of: $419.9 million of consolidated debt; $384.2 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt; and $62.2 million of preferred equity debt, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2014 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be extended, refinanced or repaid with operating cash flows and borrowings from the Company’s credit facility (which at December 31, 2013, had $1.6 billion available). The 2014 unconsolidated joint venture and preferred equity debt maturities are anticipated to be extended or repaid through debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

27 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintain its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company plans to continue strengthening its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives. 

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $9.3 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. The Company will continue to access these markets, as available.  

The Company has a $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2015 and has a one-year extension option. This credit facility, provides funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus 1.05% (1.22% as of December 31, 2013) and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings and has a facility fee of 0.20% per annum. As part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company could auction up to $875.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. In addition, as part of the Credit Facility, the Company has a $500.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Canadian Dollars, British Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to covenants requiring the maintenance of (i) maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured and secured debt and (ii) minimum interest and fixed coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2013, the Credit Facility had a balance of $194.5 million outstanding and $3.3 million appropriated for letters of credit. 

Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently in compliance with these covenants. The financial covenants for the Credit Facility are as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 27, 2011 filed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2011. 

During March 2013, the Company entered into a new five year 1.0 billion Mexican peso (“MXN”) term loan which matures in March 2018. This term loan bears interest at a rate equal to TIIE (Equilibrium Interbank Interest Rate) plus 1.35% (5.146% as of December 31, 2013). The Company has the option to swap this rate to a fixed rate at any time during the term of the loan. The Company used these proceeds to repay its 1.0 billion MXN term loan, which matured in March 2013 and bore interest at a fixed rate of 8.58%. As of December 31, 2013, the outstanding balance on this new term loan was MXN 1.0 billion (USD $76.5 million). The Mexican term loan covenants are similar to the Credit Facility covenants described above. 

The Company also has a $400.0 million unsecured term loan with a consortium of banks, which accrues interest at LIBOR plus 105 basis points (1.22% as of December 31, 2013). The term loan is scheduled to mature in April 2014, with three additional one-year options to extend the maturity date, at the Company’s discretion, to April 17, 2017. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company, among other things, is subject to covenants requiring the maintenance of (i) maximum indebtedness ratios and (ii) minimum interest and fixed charge coverage ratios. Proceeds from this term loan were used for general corporate purposes including the repayment of debt. The term loan covenants are similar to the Credit Facility covenants described above. During January 2014, the Company exercised its option to extend the maturity date to April 17, 2015.  

During April 2012, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which is effective for a term of three years, for the future unlimited offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. The Company, pursuant to this shelf registration statement may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.)  

28 

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its medium term notes (“MTN”) and senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the various indenture covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993; First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994; the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995; the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006; the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2009; the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 31, 2006; the Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2013 filed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 23, 2013 and First Supplemental Indenture dated October 31, 2006, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. See the Exhibits Index for specific filing information. 

During May 2013, the Company issued $350.0 million of 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes at an interest rate of 3.125% payable semi-annually in arrears and are scheduled to mature in June 2023. Net proceeds from the issuance were $344.7 million, after related transaction costs of $0.5 million. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes including the partial reduction of borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility and the repayment of the $75.0 million senior unsecured notes which matured in June 2013. 

During July 2013, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company issued $200.0 million Canadian denominated (“CAD”) Series 4 unsecured notes on a private placement basis in Canada. The notes bear interest at 3.855% and are scheduled to mature on August 4, 2020. Proceeds from these notes were used to repay the Company’s CAD $200.0 million 5.180% unsecured notes, which matured on August 16, 2013.  

During 2013, the Company also (i) repaid its $100.0 million 6.125% senior unsecured notes, which matured in January 2013, (ii) repaid its $100.0 million 5.190% senior unsecured notes which matured on October 1, 2013, (iii) assumed $284.9 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of nine operating properties, including an increase of $5.8 million associated with fair value debt adjustments, (iv) repaid $256.3 million of mortgage debt that encumbered 14 properties and (v) obtained $36.0 million of individual non-recourse debt relating to three operating properties. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had over 390 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio.  

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor sources of capital and evaluate the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid were $400.4 million in 2013, $382.7 million in 2012 and $353.8 million in 2011. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend per common share of $0.225 payable to shareholders of record on January 2, 2014, which was paid on January 15, 2014. Additionally, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.225 per common share payable to shareholders of record on April 3, 2014, which is scheduled to be paid on April 15, 2014.  

The Company is subject to taxes on its activities in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and Peru. During 2013, less than $0.1 million of withholding and transaction taxes were withheld from distributions related to foreign activities. In general, under local country law applicable to the structures the Company has in place and applicable treaties, the repatriation of cash to the Company from its subsidiaries and joint ventures in Canada, Mexico and Brazil generally are not subject to withholding tax. The Company does not anticipate the need to repatriate foreign funds from Chile, Peru or Brazil to provide for its cash flow needs in the U.S. and, as such, no significant withholding or transaction taxes are expected in the foreseeable future. The Company will be subject to withholding taxes in Chile and Peru on the distribution of any proceeds from sale transactions.  

29 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facility, term loans, MTNs, senior notes and mortgages with maturities ranging from less than one year to 21 years. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of 4.0 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2013, the Company has 46 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 9 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities (excluding extension options and fair market value of debt adjustments aggregating $10.8 million) and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2013 (in millions): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from one to five years. 

(2) For loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2013. 

(3) During January 2014, the Company exercised its one year extension option to extend the maturity date on its $400.0 million term loan from April 2014 to April 2015. 

The Company has accrued $4.6 million of non-current uncertain tax benefits and related interest under the provisions of the authoritative guidance that addresses accounting for income taxes, which are included in Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013. These amounts are not included in the table above because a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with the relevant tax authorities, if any, cannot be made. 

The Company has $194.6 million of medium term notes, $100.0 million of unsecured notes and $125.3 million of secured debt scheduled to mature in 2014. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facility, exercise of extension options, where available, and new debt issuances. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for loans encumbering certain of the Company’s redevelopment projects and guarantee of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. As of December 31, 2013, these letters of credit aggregate $31.9 million. 

On a select basis, the Company has provided guarantees on interest bearing debt held within real estate joint ventures. The Company is often provided with a back-stop guarantee from its partners. The Company had the following outstanding guarantees as of December 31, 2013 (amounts in millions): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) During June 2013, the Company sold its unconsolidated investment in the InTown portfolio for a sales price of $735.0 million which included the assignment of $609.2 million in debt. This transaction resulted in a deferred gain to the Company of $21.7 million. The Company continues to maintain its guarantee of a portion of the debt assumed by the buyer ($139.7 million as of December 31, 2013). The guarantee is collateralized by the buyer’s ownership interest in the portfolio. Additionally, the Company has entered into a commitment to provide financing up to the outstanding amount of the guaranteed portion of the loan for five years past the date of maturity. This commitment can be in the form of extensions with the current lender or a new lender or financing directly from the Company to the buyer.  

In connection with the construction of its development/redevelopment projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require posting of performance and surety bonds to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had $21.1 million in performance and surety bonds outstanding.  

30 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures primarily operate shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, has obtained unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make (see guarantee table above). Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). These investments include the following joint ventures: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(b) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

(c) Represents the Company's joint ventures with certain institutional investors.  

(d) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with BIG Shopping Centers (TLV:BIG), an Israeli public company. 

(e) Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(f) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Blackstone. 

(g) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with SEB Immobilien Investment GmbH. 

(h) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with The Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB).  

(i) Represents the Kimco Income Fund. 

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2013, these other unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating $1.3 billion. The aggregate debt as of December 31, 2013, of all of the Company’s unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is $5.6 billion, of which the Company’s proportionate share of this debt is $2.1 billion. As of December 31, 2013, these loans had scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 20 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 1.67% to 10.50%. Approximately $384.2 million of the aggregate outstanding loan balance matures in 2014, of which the Company’s proportionate share is $175.1 million. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. (See Footnote 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company previously provided capital to owners and developers of real estate properties through its Preferred Equity program. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was $95.6 million relating to 91 properties. As of December 31, 2013, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating $485.4 million. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

31 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2013, the remaining 392 properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating $336.0 million, not including $56.5 million in net fair market value of debt adjustments, with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47%, a weighted average interest rate of 9.2% and maturities ranging from one to nine years.  

At December 31, 2013, the Company had a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 11 properties, which is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with the FASB’s Lease guidance. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. These 11 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of $17.9 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Funds from Operations 

Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is a supplemental non-GAAP measure utilized to evaluate the operating performance of real estate companies. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines FFO as net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), excluding (i) gains or losses from sales of operating real estate assets and (ii) extraordinary items, plus (iii) depreciation and amortization of operating properties and (iv) impairment of depreciable real estate and in substance real estate equity investments and (v) after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. 

The Company presents FFO as it considers it an important supplemental measure of our operating performance and believes it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of REITs, many of which present FFO when reporting results. Comparison of our presentation of FFO to similarly titled measures for other REITs may not necessarily be meaningful due to possible differences in the application of the NAREIT definition used by such REITs. 

The Company also presents FFO as adjusted as an additional supplemental measure as it believes it is more reflective of the Company’s core operating performance. The Company believes FFO as adjusted provides investors and analysts an additional measure in comparing the Company’s performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance. FFO as adjusted is generally calculated by the Company as FFO excluding certain transactional income and expenses and non-operating impairments which management believes are not reflective of the results within the Company’s operating real estate portfolio. 

FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performances, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative for net income as a measure of liquidity. Our method of calculating FFO and FFO as adjusted may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs.  

32 

The Company’s reconciliation of net income available to common shareholders to FFO and FFO as adjusted for the three months and years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 is as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

     (1)  For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the effect of certain convertible units would have an anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation of Income from continuing operations per share. Accordingly, the impact of such conversion has not been included in the determination of diluted earnings per share calculations.  

Same Property Net Operating Income 

Same Property Net Operating Income (“Same Property NOI”) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performance and should not be considered an alternative to net income in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. Same Property NOI is considered by management to be an important performance measure of the Company’s operations and management believes that it is helpful to investors as a measure of the Company’s operating performance because it includes only the net operating income of properties that have been owned for the entire current and prior year reporting periods including those properties under redevelopment and excludes properties under development and pending stabilization. Properties are deemed stabilized at the earlier of (i) reaching 90% leased or (ii) one year following a projects inclusion in operating real estate (two years for Latin American properties). As such, Same Property NOI assists in eliminating disparities in net income due to the development, acquisition or disposition of properties during the particular period presented, and thus provides a more consistent performance measure for the comparison of the Company's properties.  

33 

Same Property NOI is calculated using revenues from rental properties (excluding straight-line rents, lease termination fees, above/below market rents and includes charges for bad debt) less operating and maintenance expense, real estate taxes and rent expense, plus the Company’s proportionate share of Same Property NOI from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, calculated on the same basis. Our method of calculating Same Property NOI may differ from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. The following is a reconciliation of the Company’s Income from continuing operations to Same Property NOI (in thousands): 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Same Property NOI increased by $7.7 million or 3.4% for the three months ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase of $6.0 million related to lease-up and rent commencements and (ii) an increase of $3.2 million in other property and ancillary income, partially offset by, (iii) the negative impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.5 million.  

Same Property NOI increased by $31.6 million or 3.5% for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the corresponding period in 2012. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase of $25.9 million related to lease-up and rent commencements and (ii) an increase of $8.2 million in other property and ancillary income, partially offset by, (iii) the negative impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $2.5 million.  

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Footnote 1 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

34 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk