Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and the Operating Partnership should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes, except for two unconsolidated developments and our military housing properties. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date hereof and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to the following:

▪We intend to actively acquire and/or develop multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. 

34
We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease up. We may be unable to lease up these apartment properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields due to lower occupancy and rates as well as higher than expected concessions. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position or to complete a development property. Additionally, we expect that other real estate investors with capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development and acquisition efforts. This competition (or lack thereof) may increase (or depress) prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios, that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. The total number of apartment units under development, costs of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;

▪Debt financing and other capital required by the Company may not be available or may only be available on adverse terms;

▪Labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated;

▪Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, rental housing subsidized by the government, other government programs that favor single family rental housing or owner occupied housing over multifamily rental housing, slow or negative employment growth and household formation, the availability of low-interest mortgages for single family home buyers, changes in social preferences and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and

▪Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Overview

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP.

 EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2011 owned an approximate 95.7% ownership interest in ERPOP. All of the Company's property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues public equity from time to time but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company's ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity. 

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its markets. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 3,800 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.

Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies

The Company invests in apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital. 

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew 

35
their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends. 

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign their lease, review their account and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line. 

We seek to maximize capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property appreciation. These markets generally feature one or more of the following:

•High barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply;

•High single family home prices making our apartments a more economical housing choice;

•Strong economic growth leading to household formation and job growth, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments; and

•An attractive quality of life leading to high demand and retention that allows us to increase rents.

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture agreements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. The Company may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings. The Company has also, in the past, converted some of its properties and sold them as condominiums but is not currently active in this line of business.

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio from low barrier to entry/non-core markets to high barrier to entry/core markets. Since 2005, the Company has sold over 124,000 apartment units primarily in its non-core markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $10.0 billion, acquired over 42,000 apartment units in its core markets for approximately $9.4 billion and began approximately $2.7 billion of development projects in its core markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets primarily in the following targeted metropolitan areas: Boston, New York, Washington DC, South Florida, Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. We also have investments (in the aggregate about 19.2% of our NOI at December 31, 2011) in other markets including Denver, Atlanta, Phoenix, New England (excluding Boston), Orlando and Jacksonville but do not currently intend to acquire or develop new assets in these markets.

As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties or land on which apartment properties can be constructed. We intend to hold a diversified portfolio of assets across our target markets. As of December 31, 2011, no single metropolitan area accounted for more than 15.3% of our NOI, though no guarantee can be made that NOI concentration may not increase in the future. 

We endeavor to attract and retain the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensively train our customer service specialists in maintaining the equipment and appliances on our property sites. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and have consistently received high engagement scores. 

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including transactions, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated in pedestrian-friendly urban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water usage by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting and HVAC improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption.

36
Current Environment

 We expect strong growth in 2012 same store revenue (anticipated increase ranging from 5.0% to 6.0%) and 2012 NOI (anticipated increase ranging from 6.5% to 8.5%) and are optimistic that the strength in fundamentals realized in 2011 will be sustained for the foreseeable future. We believe the key drivers behind the anticipated increases in revenue are base rent pricing, renewal pricing, resident turnover and physical occupancy. Despite extremely slow growth in the overall economy, our business continues to perform well as evidenced by rising base and renewal rents. Our relatively stable turnover and solid occupancy, which we anticipate will continue throughout 2012, provide us with the ability to increase rental rates. The combined forces of demographics, household formations and the continued aversion to home ownership should ensure a continued strong demand for rental housing. 

The Company anticipates that 2012 same store expenses will increase 1.5% to 2.5% primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, utilities and payroll. Real estate taxes are expected to increase 4.0% to 5.0% in 2012 most significantly due to the burn off of 421a tax abatements in New York City but also due to expected value and rate increases in some of our jurisdictions. Utilities are expected to grow 1.5% to 2.5% in 2012 as increases in water, sewer and trash are partially offset by decreases in natural gas rates. On-site payroll is expected to increase by approximately 1.0% in 2012 as normal annual merit increases in payroll should be mitigated by improvements in technology and automation. This follows several years of excellent expense control, with a compounded annual growth in same store expenses of approximately 1.0% over the last five years. 

 The Company continues to sell non-core assets and reduce its exposure to non-core markets as we believe these assets do not fit into our long term plans and we can sell them for prices that we believe are favorable. The Company sold 47 consolidated properties consisting of 14,345 apartment units for $1.48 billion during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company's decision to accelerate the timing and increase the volume of dispositions combined with reinvestment of the cash proceeds in assets with lower cap rates (see definition below) later in 2011 was dilutive to our 2011 per share results. The Company defines dilution from transactions as the lost NOI from sales proceeds that were not reinvested in other apartment properties or were reinvested in properties with a lower cap rate. The Company anticipates consolidated dispositions of approximately $1.25 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012.

 Competition for the properties we are interested in acquiring is significant due to the overall improvement in market fundamentals. We believe our access to capital, our ability to execute large, complex transactions and our ability to efficiently stabilize large scale lease up properties provide us with a competitive advantage. The Company acquired 21 consolidated properties consisting of 6,198 apartment units for $1.38 billion and one commercial building for potential redevelopment for $11.8 million. The Company anticipates consolidated acquisitions of approximately $1.25 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012.

The Company also acquired six land parcels and entered into a long-term ground lease on another land parcel for $202.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. We acquired these land parcels with the intent to develop them into approximately $725.0 million of new apartment properties. The Company also started construction on six projects representing 2,124 apartment units totaling $656.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company expects to start construction on eight projects representing 2,014 apartment units totaling approximately $750.0 million of development costs during the year ended December 31, 2012. 

On December 2, 2011, the Company entered into a contract with affiliates of Bank of America and Barclays PLC to acquire, for $1.325 billion, half of their interests - an approximately 26.5% interest overall - in Archstone, a privately-held owner, operator and developer of multifamily apartment properties. On January 20, 2012, Lehman Brothers, the other owner of Archstone, acquired this 26.5% interest pursuant to a right of first offer and as a result, the Company's contract with the sellers was terminated. The Company now has the exclusive right, exercisable on or before April 19, 2012, to contract to purchase the remaining 26.5% interest in Archstone owned by the same sellers for a price, determined by the Company, equal to $1.485 billion or higher. Any purchase of the remaining interest by the Company would also be subject to Lehman's right of first offer, and if Lehman were to exercise such right, the Company would be entitled to a break-up fee of $80.0 million, subject to repayment in certain limited circumstances. In 2011, the Company incurred Archstone-related expenses of approximately $4.4 million. Approximately $2.6 million of this total was financing-related and $1.8 million was pursuit costs.   

We currently have access to multiple sources of capital including the equity markets as well as both the secured and unsecured debt markets. In December 2011, the Company completed a $1.0 billion unsecured ten year note offering with a coupon of 4.625% and an all-in effective interest rate of approximately 6.2%. We also raised $201.9 million in equity under our ATM Common Share offering program in 2011 and raised an additional $123.6 million under this program thus far in 2012. In July 2011, the Company replaced its then existing unsecured revolving credit facility which was due to mature in February 2012 with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The Company believes that the new facility contains a diversified and strong bank group which increases its 

37
balance sheet flexibility going forward. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion and entered into a commitment for a new senior unsecured $500.0 million delayed draw term loan facility. The Company arranged these facilities to replace a commitment for a $1.0 billion senior unsecured bridge loan facility and represents access to certain but contingent capital should the Company be successful in its pursuit of Archstone. These facilities are also available for other funding obligations should the Company be unsuccessful in its pursuit of Archstone.

We believe that cash and cash equivalents, securities readily convertible to cash, current availability on our revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility and disposition proceeds for 2012 will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our funding obligations relating to asset acquisitions, including an interest in Archstone, debt maturities and existing development projects through 2012. We expect that our remaining longer-term funding requirements will be met through some combination of new borrowings, equity issuances (including EQR's ATM Common Share offering program), property dispositions, joint ventures and cash generated from operations. 

There is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”). Through their lender originator networks, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are significant lenders both to the Company and to buyers of the Company's properties. The GSEs have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities. Any changes to their mandates, reductions in their size or the scale of their activities or loss of key personnel could have a significant impact on the Company and may, among other things, lead to lower values for our disposition assets and higher interest rates on our borrowings. Such changes may also provide an advantage to us by making the cost of financing single family home ownership more expensive and provide us a competitive advantage given the size of our balance sheet and the multiple sources of capital to which we have access. 

We believe that the Company is well-positioned as of December 31, 2011 because our properties are geographically diverse, were approximately 94.2% occupied (94.7% on a same store basis) and the long-term demographic picture is positive. With the exception of the Washington, D.C. market area, little new multifamily rental supply will be added to our markets over the next several years. We believe our strong balance sheet and ample liquidity will allow us to fund our debt maturities and development costs in the near term, and should also allow us to take advantage of investment opportunities in the future. As economic conditions continue to improve, the short-term nature of our leases and the limited supply of new rental housing being constructed, along with the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel, should allow us to realize even more revenue growth and improvement in our operating results.

The current environment information presented above is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Results of Operations

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company continued to invest in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. In summary, we:

Year Ended December 31, 2011:

▪Acquired $1.3 billion of apartment properties consisting of 20 consolidated properties and 6,103 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate (see definition below) of 5.2% and acquired five land parcels and entered into a long-term ground lease on one land parcel located in New York City for a total of $68.3 million, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Acquired one unoccupied property in the San Francisco Bay Area in the third quarter of 2011 for $39.5 million consisting of 95 apartment units that is expected to stabilize at a 6.3% yield on cost;

▪Acquired a 97,000 square foot commercial building adjacent to our Harbor Steps apartment property in downtown Seattle for $11.8 million for potential redevelopment; and

▪Sold $1.5 billion of consolidated apartment properties consisting of 47 properties and 14,345 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 6.5% generating an unlevered internal rate of return (IRR), inclusive of management costs, of 11.1% and one land parcel for $22.8 million, the majority of which were in exit or less desirable markets. 

38
Year Ended December 31, 2010:

▪Acquired $1.1 billion of apartment properties consisting of 14 consolidated properties and 3,207 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 5.4% and six land parcels for $68.9 million, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets;

▪Acquired one unoccupied property in the second quarter of 2010 (425 Mass in Washington, D.C.) for $166.8 million consisting of 559 apartment units that is expected to stabilize at an 8.5% yield on cost and one property in the third quarter of 2010 (Vantage Pointe in San Diego, CA) for $200.0 million consisting of 679 apartment units that was in the early stages of lease up and is expected to stabilize at a 7.0% yield on cost;

▪Acquired the 75% equity interest it did not own in seven previously unconsolidated properties consisting of 1,811 apartment units at an implied cap rate of 8.4% in exchange for an approximate $30.0 million payment to its joint venture partner;

▪Sold $718.4 million of consolidated apartment properties consisting of 35 properties and 7,171 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 6.7%, 2 condominium units for $0.4 million and one land parcel for $4.0 million, the majority of which was in exit or less desirable markets; and

▪Sold the last of its 25% equity interests in an institutional joint venture consisting of 27 unconsolidated properties containing 6,275 apartment units. These properties were valued in their entirety at $417.8 million which results in an implied weighted average cap rate of 7.5% (generating cash to the Company, net of debt repayments, of $26.9 million).

The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of its operating performance because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities. The cap rate is generally the first year NOI yield (net of replacements) on the Company's investment.

Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2011 and 2010 (the “2011 Same Store Properties”), which represented 101,312 apartment units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2010 and 2009 (the “2010 Same Store Properties”), which represented 112,042 apartment units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2011 Same Store Properties and 2010 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.

The Company's acquisition, disposition and completed development activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The impacts of these activities are discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2011 to the year ended December 31, 2010 

For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $2.95 compared to $0.95 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010. The difference is primarily due to higher gains from property sales in 2011 vs. 2010, higher total property net operating income driven by the positive impact of the Company’s same store and lease-up activity and $45.4 million in impairment losses in 2010 that did not reoccur in 2011, partially offset by dilution as a result of the net impact of the Company's 2010 and 2011 acquisition and disposition activities.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, income from continuing operations increased approximately $167.4 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2011 Same Store Properties increased $81.9 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents and an increase in occupancy. Expenses from the 2011 Same Store Properties increased $3.5 million primarily due to increases in property management costs, real estate taxes and utilities, partially offset by decreases in leasing and advertising costs and insurance. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2011 Same Store Properties:

39
2011 vs. 2010 

Same Store Results/Statistics

$ in thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) – 101,312 Same Store Apartment Units

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2011 Same Store Properties:

2011 vs. 2010 

Same Store Operating Expenses

$ in thousands – 101,312 Same Store Apartment Units

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges and association and business licensing fees.

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations to NOI for the 2011 Same Store Properties.

40
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2011 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2012, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company anticipates consolidated rental acquisitions of $1.25 billion and consolidated rental dispositions of $1.25 billion and expects that acquisitions will have a 1.25% lower cap rate than dispositions for the full year ending December 31, 2012.

These 2012 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $110.7 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2010 and 2011, as well as operations from the Company’s completed development properties. Although the operations of both the non-same store assets and the same store assets have been positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2011, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company’s overall operating results primarily due to 2010 and 2011 acquisitions, increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2011 than 2010. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $39.1 million;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $3.0 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $0.3 million or 6.0% primarily due to revenues earned on management of the Company’s unconsolidated development joint ventures, an increase in revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base and lower expenses, partially offset by the unwinding of four institutional joint ventures during 2010. 

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased approximately $2.0 million or 2.6%. This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the creation of the Company’s central business group, which moved certain administrative functions off-site, and increases in legal and professional fees and education/conference expenses. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $33.8 million or 5.5% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2011, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of furniture, fixtures and equipment that were fully depreciated. 

41
General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $3.7 million or 9.3% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the acceleration of long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $45.0 million to $46.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Impairment from continuing operations decreased approximately $45.4 million due to an impairment charge taken during the fourth quarter of 2010 on land held for development related to two potential development projects that did not reoccur in 2011. See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $2.8 million or 54.4% primarily as a result of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents due to larger overall cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010, forfeited deposits for terminated disposition transactions and proceeds received from the Company’s final royalty participation in LRO/Rainmaker (a revenue management system), partially offset by insurance/litigation settlement proceeds that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010 and did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $0.5 million to $1.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $2.6 million or 22.0% primarily due to an increase in property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company’s 2011 acquisitions as well as transaction costs related to the pursuit of Archstone.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $7.8 million or 1.6% primarily as a result of a full year of interest expense on the $600.0 million of unsecured notes that closed in July 2010 and interest expense on forward starting swaps terminated in conjunction with the issuance of $1.0 billion of unsecured notes, partially offset by lower interest expense on mortgage notes payable due to lower balances during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $9.1 million as compared to $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 5.30% as compared to 5.14% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company anticipates that interest expense from continuing operations will approximate $458.0 million to $468.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $0.4 million primarily due to Tennessee and Texas franchise tax refunds received during the year ended December 31, 2010 that did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by decreases in all other taxes. The Company anticipates that income and other tax expense will approximate $0.5 million to $1.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $0.7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to the unwinding of four institutional joint ventures during 2010.

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $28.1 million primarily due to the gain on sale and revaluation of seven previously unconsolidated properties that were acquired from the Company’s joint venture partner and the gain on sale for 27 unconsolidated properties that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010 that did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2011.

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased approximately $5.6 million primarily due to the gain on sale of a land parcel located in suburban Washington, D.C. during the year ended December 31, 2011 and a loss on sale of a land parcel during the same period in 2010.

Discontinued operations, net increased approximately $471.8 million between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to higher gains from property sales during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, partially offset by properties sold in 2011 which reflect operations for none of or a partial period in 2011 in contrast to a full or partial period in 2010. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2010 to the year ended December 31, 2009 

For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $0.95 compared to $1.27 per share for the year ended December 31, 2009. The difference is primarily due to $37.3 million in lower gains from property sales in 2010 vs. 2009 and $34.3 million in higher impairment losses in 2010 vs. 2009.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, loss from continuing operations increased approximately $25.7 million when 

42
compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2010 Same Store Properties decreased $2.1 million primarily as a result of a decrease in average rental rates charged to residents, partially offset by an increase in occupancy. Expenses from the 2010 Same Store Properties increased $6.2 million primarily due to increases in repairs and maintenance expenses (mostly due to greater storm-related costs such as snow removal and roof repairs incurred during the first quarter of 2010), higher property management costs and increases in utility costs, partially offset by lower real estate taxes and leasing and advertising expenses. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2010 Same Store Properties:

2010 vs. 2009

Same Store Results/Statistics

$ in thousands (except for Average Rental Rate) – 112,042 Same Store Apartment Unit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2010 Same Store Properties:

2010 vs. 2009 

Same Store Operating Expenses

$ in thousands – 112,042 Same Store Apartment Units

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges and association and business licensing fees.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $84.6 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2009 and 2010, as well as operations from the Company's completed development properties and corporate housing 

43
business. While the operations of the non-same store assets have been negatively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2010 similar to the same store assets, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company's overall operating results primarily due to increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2010 than 2009. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $32.4 million;

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $0.2 million;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Partially offset by an allocation of property management costs not included in same store results and operating activities from other miscellaneous operations, such as the Company's corporate housing business.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $1.5 million or 49.2% primarily due to an increase in revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base (primarily due to increased housing redevelopment on the base which earned the Company additional fees) as well as a decrease in asset management expenses, partially offset by the unwinding of the Company's institutional joint ventures during 2010.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company's properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased approximately $8.8 million or 12.3%. This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in payroll-related costs (due primarily to higher health insurance and bonus costs, acceleration of long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees and the creation of the Company's central business group, which moved administrative functions off-site), legal and professional fees, education/conference expenses, real estate tax consulting fees and travel expenses. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $94.4 million or 18.2% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2009 and 2010, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $0.9 million or 2.3% primarily due to higher overall payroll-related costs (due primarily to higher bonus costs), partially offset by lower tax compliance fees and office rents. 

Impairment from continuing operations increased approximately $34.3 million due to a $45.4 million impairment charge taken during the fourth quarter of 2010 on land held for development related to two potential development projects compared to an $11.1 million impairment charge taken during 2009 on land held for development. See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased approximately $11.4 million or 68.8% primarily as a result of a decrease in interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and investment securities due to lower interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2010 and lower overall balances as well as gains on debt extinguishment and the sale of investment securities recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009 that did not reoccur in 2010, partially offset by an increase in insurance/litigation settlement proceeds. 

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $5.5 million or 84.2% primarily due to an increase in the expensing of overhead (pursuit cost write-offs) as a result of the Company's decision to reduce its development activities in prior periods as well as an increase in property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company's significantly higher acquisition volume in 2010. 

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, decreased approximately $27.2 million or 5.4% primarily as a result of lower overall debt balances and higher debt extinguishment costs due to the significant debt repurchases in 2009 and lower rates in 2010, partially offset by interest expense on the $500.0 million mortgage pool that closed in 2009, the $600.0 million of unsecured notes that closed in July 2010 and lower capitalized interest. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $13.0 million as compared to $34.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 5.14% as compared to 5.62% for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

44
Income and other tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $2.4 million or 89.2% primarily due to a decrease in franchise taxes for Texas and a decrease in business taxes for Washington, D.C. 

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $2.1 million or 73.9% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to the Company's $1.8 million share of defeasance costs incurred in conjunction with the extinguishment of cross-collateralized mortgage debt on one of the Company's partially owned unconsolidated joint ventures taken during the year ended December 31, 2009 that did not reoccur in 2010. 

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased approximately $17.4 million primarily due to larger gains on sale and revaluation of seven previously unconsolidated properties that were acquired from the Company's joint venture partner and the gain on sale for 27 properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared with unconsolidated properties sold in the same period in 2009.

Net loss on sales of land parcels increased approximately $1.4 million primarily due to the loss on sale of one land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Discontinued operations, net decreased approximately $60.3 million or 13.7% between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to lower gains from property sales during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 and the operations of those properties. In addition, properties sold in 2010 reflect operations for none of or a partial period in 2010 in contrast to a full or partial period in 2009. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

EQR issues public equity from time to time and guarantees certain debt of ERPOP. EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership.

As of January 1, 2011, the Company had approximately $431.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, its restricted 1031 exchange proceeds totaled $103.9 million and it had $1.28 billion available under its then existing revolving credit facility (net of $147.3 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and $75.0 million which had been committed by a now bankrupt financial institution and was not available for borrowing). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2011 was approximately $383.9 million, its restricted 1031 exchange proceeds totaled $53.7 million and the amount available on its new revolving credit facility was $1.22 billion (net of $31.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit).

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:

▪Disposed of 47 consolidated properties and one land parcel, receiving net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion;

▪Obtained $190.9 million in new mortgage financing;

▪Issued $1.0 billion of unsecured notes, receiving net proceeds of $996.2 million before underwriting fees and other expenses; and

▪Issued approximately 6.9 million Common Shares (including Common Shares issued under the ATM program – see further discussion below) and received net proceeds of $274.1 million, which were contributed to the capital of the Operating Partnership in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis).

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:

▪Acquire 21 rental properties, a 97,000 square foot commercial building, six land parcels and entered into one long-term ground lease for approximately $1.4 billion;

▪Invest $120.7 million primarily in development projects;

▪Repay $991.7 million of mortgage loans and $575.6 million of unsecured notes; and

▪Settle various forward starting swaps, utilizing cash of $147.3 million.

In September 2009, the EQR announced the establishment of an At-The-Market (“ATM”) share offering program which 

45
would allow EQR to sell up to 17.0 million Common Shares (later increased by 5.7 million Common Shares) from time to time over the next three years into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds from all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis). EQR may, but shall have no obligation to, sell Common Shares through the ATM share offering program in amounts and at times to be determined by EQR. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by EQR from time to time, including (among others) market conditions, the trading price of EQR's Common Shares and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding for EQR. During the year ended December 31, 2011, EQR issued approximately 3.9 million Common Shares at an average price of $52.23 per share for total consideration of approximately $201.9 million through the ATM program. During the year ended December 31, 2010, EQR issued approximately 6.2 million Common Shares at an average price of $47.45 per share for total consideration of approximately $291.9 million through the ATM program. During the year ended December 31, 2009, EQR issued approximately 3.5 million Common Shares at an average price of $35.38 per share for total consideration of approximately $123.7 million through the ATM program. In addition, during the first quarter of 2012 through February 17, 2012, the Company issued approximately 2.1 million Common Shares at an average price of $59.47 per share for total consideration of approximately $123.6 million. Through February 17, 2012, EQR has cumulatively issued approximately 15.6 million Common Shares at an average price of $47.53 per share for total consideration of approximately $741.2 million. EQR has 7.1 million Common Shares remaining available for issuance under the ATM program as of February 17, 2012. 

On June 16, 2011, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the “2011 Plan”). The 2011 Plan reserved 12,980,741 Common Shares for issuance. In conjunction with the approval of the 2011 Plan, no further awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan. The 2011 Plan expires on June 16, 2021. See Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, EQR may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Trustees. As of February 17, 2012, EQR had authorization to repurchase an additional $464.6 million of its shares. No shares were repurchased during 2011. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, the Company may from time to time seek to repurchase and retire its outstanding debt in open market or privately negotiated transactions.

The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:

Debt Summary as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2011.

(2)On July 13, 2011, the Company replaced its then existing unsecured revolving credit facility with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving 

46
credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.15%) and the Company pays an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. Subsequent to year-end, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion. The terms did not change, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date.

Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $9.1 million and $13.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Debt Maturity Schedule as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2011.

(2)Effective April 5, 2011, the Company exercised the second of its two one-year extension options for its $500.0 million term loan facility and as a result, the maturity date is now October 5, 2012.

(3)There is no floating rate debt maturing in 2015 and 2016. The amounts above represent amortization of discounts on floating rate debt.

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2011:

47
Unsecured Debt Summary as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Fair value interest rate swaps convert $300.0 million of the 5.200% notes due April 1, 2013 to a floating interest rate. 

(2)Facilities are private. All other unsecured debt is public.

(3)Effective April 5, 2011, the Company exercised the second of its two one-year extension options for its $500.0 million term loan facility and as a result, the maturity date is now October 5, 2012. Subsequent to year-end, the Company entered into a new senior unsecured $500.0 million delayed draw term loan facility that may be drawn anytime on or before July 4, 2012 and is currently undrawn. If the Company elects to draw on this facility, the full amount of the principal will be funded in a single borrowing and the maturity date will be January 4, 2013, subject to two one-year extension options exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the new term loan facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.25%), which is dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long term debt. 

(4)On July 13, 2011, the Company replaced its then existing unsecured revolving credit facility with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.15%) and the Company pays an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. Subsequent to year-end, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion. The terms did not change, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date. As of February 17, 2012, there was approximately $1.72 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility.

An unlimited amount of equity and debt securities remains available for issuance by EQR and ERPOP under effective shelf registration statements filed with the SEC. Most recently, EQR and ERPOP filed a universal shelf registration statement for an unlimited amount of equity and debt securities that automatically became effective upon filing with the SEC in October 2010 and expires on October 15, 2013. However, as of February 17, 2012, issuances under the ATM share offering program are limited to 7.1 million additional shares. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds of all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis) or preference units (on a one-for-one preferred share per preference unit basis).

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2011 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common 

48
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.

Equity Residential

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands except for share/unit and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity Residential

Perpetual Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Operating Partnership's “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2011 is presented in the following table. The Operating Partnership calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preference units outstanding.

ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49
ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Perpetual Preference Units as of December 31, 2011 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company generally expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. Under normal operating conditions, the Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. However, there may be times when the Company experiences shortfalls in its coverage of distributions, which may cause the Company to consider reducing its distributions and/or using the proceeds from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, the Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected and it may not be able to maintain its current distribution levels. 

During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company announced a new dividend policy which it believes will generate payouts more closely aligned with the actual annual operating results of the Company’s core business and provide transparency to investors. The Company intends to pay an annual cash dividend equal to approximately 65% of Normalized FFO for the year. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid $0.3375 per share for each of the first three quarters and $0.5675 per share for the fourth quarter to bring the total payment for the year (an annual rate of $1.58 per share) to approximately 65% of Normalized FFO. The Company anticipates the expected dividend payout will range from $1.74 to $1.81 per share ($0.3375 per share for each of the first three quarters with the balance for the fourth quarter) for the year ending December 31, 2012. All future dividends remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Trustees. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. While our dividend policy makes it less likely we will over distribute, it will also lead to a dividend reduction more quickly than a fixed dividend policy should operating results deteriorate. The Company believes that its expected 2012 operating cash flow will be sufficient to cover capital expenditures and distributions.

The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the issuance of secured and unsecured debt and equity securities, including additional OP Units, and proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties and joint ventures. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $20.4 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2011, $13.9 billion or 68.3% was unencumbered. However, there can be no assurances that these sources of capital will be available to the Company in the future on acceptable terms or otherwise.

ERPOP's credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding senior debt are BBB+, Baal and BBB+, respectively. EQR's equity ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding preferred equity are BBB+, Baa2 and BBB-, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2010, Fitch downgraded ERPOP’s credit rating from A- to BBB+ and EQR's equity rating from BBB+ to BBB-, which did not have an effect on EQR's cost of funds. During the first quarter of 2011, Moody’s raised its outlook for both EQR and ERPOP from negative outlook to stable outlook and in the fourth quarter of 2011 revised its outlook from stable outlook to developing outlook.

The Company's $1.425 billion (net of $75.0 million which had been committed by a now bankrupt financial institution and was not available for borrowing) long-term revolving credit facility was replaced with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.15%) and the Company pays an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long term debt. Effective January 6, 2012, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion. The terms did not change, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date. As of February 17, 2012, there was available borrowings of $1.72 billion (net of $30.8 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit) on the new revolving credit facility. This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties 

50
under development and short-term liquidity requirements. 

In 2010, a portion of the parking garage collapsed at one of the Company’s rental properties (Prospect Towers in Hackensack, New Jersey). Through December 31, 2011, the Company has cumulatively incurred $13.3 million in capitalized costs to rebuild the garage, incurred $7.2 million in expenses for items such as accommodating displaced residents and legal costs and estimates that its lost revenues approximate $2.3 million, and the Company estimates that its total costs will approximate $23.0 million. Through December 31, 2011, the Company has cumulatively received approximately $10.1 million in insurance proceeds and estimates its total insurance reimbursements will approximate $12.0 million. The garage has been rebuilt with costs capitalized as incurred. All other costs, including lost revenue due to a portion of the property being temporarily unavailable for occupancy, reduce earnings as they are incurred. Generally, insurance proceeds are recorded as increases to earnings as they are received. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received approximately $6.1 million in insurance proceeds which offset expenses of $1.7 million that were recorded relating to this loss and are included in real estate taxes and insurance on the consolidated statements of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received approximately $4.0 million in insurance proceeds which fully offset the impairment charge recognized to write-off the net book value of the collapsed garage and partially offset expenses of $5.5 million that were recorded relating to this loss and are included in real estate taxes and insurance on the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, the Company estimates that its lost revenues approximated $0.7 million and $1.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as a result of lost occupancy in the high-rise tower following the collapse. None of the amounts referenced above impact same store results.

See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2011.

Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:

▪Replacements (inside the apartment unit). These include:

•flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl, linoleum or tile;

•appliances;

•mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;

•furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and

•blinds/shades.

All replacements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual apartment units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.

▪Building improvements (outside the apartment unit). These include:

•roof replacement and major repairs;

•paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;

•amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;

•major building mechanical equipment systems;

•interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;

•major landscaping and grounds improvement; and

•vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to fifteen-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $144.5 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

51
Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 4,901 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $38.1 million spent in 2011 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 5,416 apartment units (equating to about $7,000 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2010, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2010 and 2011, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2010. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 11,414 apartment units.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $138.2 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2010 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 4,738 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $31.7 million spent in 2010 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 4,331 apartment units (equating to about $7,300 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2009, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2009 and 2010, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2009. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 9,141 apartment units.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.

For 2012, the Company estimates that it will spend approximately $1,225 per apartment unit of capital expenditures for its same store properties inclusive of apartment unit renovation/rehab costs, or $850 per apartment unit excluding apartment unit renovation/rehab costs. For 2012, the Company estimates that it will spend $39.2 million rehabbing 4,700 apartment units (equating to about $8,300 per apartment unit rehabbed). The above assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $7.1 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $6.7 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2012. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities and from investment cash flow.

52
Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company seeks to manage these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments.

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from these instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives it currently has in place.

See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2011.

Other

Total distributions paid in January 2012 amounted to $179.5 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

The Company admitted an 80% institutional partner to two separate entities/transactions (one in December 2010 and the other in August 2011), each owning a developable land parcel, in exchange for $40.1 million in cash and retained a 20% equity interest in both of these entities. These land parcels are now unconsolidated. Total project costs are approximately $232.8 million and construction will be predominantly funded with two separate long-term, non-recourse secured loans from the partner. While the Company is the managing member of both of the joint ventures, is responsible for constructing both of the projects and has given certain construction cost overrun guarantees, all major decisions are made jointly, the large majority of funding is provided by the partner and the partner has significant involvement in and oversight of the ongoing projects. The Company's remaining funding obligations are currently estimated at $5.4 million. The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its financial risk related to the development of the properties. However, management does not believe that these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its other consolidated development activities.

In December 2011, the Company acquired a vacant land parcel at 400 Park Avenue South in New York City in a joint venture with Toll Brothers (NYSE: TOL). Until the core and shell of the building is complete, the building and land will be owned jointly and are required to be consolidated on the Company's balance sheet. Thereafter, the Company will solely own and control the rental portion of the building (floors 2-22) and Toll Brothers will solely own and control the for sale portion of the building (floors 23-40). Once the core and shell are complete, the Toll Brothers' portion of the property will be deconsolidated from the Company's balance sheet. The acquisition was financed through contributions by the Company and Toll Brothers of approximately $102.5 million and $75.7 million, respectively, which included a land purchase price of $76.1 million and $57.9 million, respectively, and taxes and fees of $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Deposits were made to the venture of $26.0 million and $17.5 million, respectively, to collateralize construction guarantees. Management does not believe that this investment has a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its other consolidated development activities.

As of December 31, 2011, the Company has six consolidated projects totaling 1,535 apartment units and two unconsolidated projects totaling 945 apartment units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through March 31, 2014, as well as other completed development projects that are in various stages of lease up or are stabilized. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 16 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities.

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2011:

53
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.

(b)Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured and unsecured debt based on obligations outstanding at December 31, 2011 and inclusive of capitalized interest. For floating rate debt, the current rate in effect for the most recent payment through December 31, 2011 is assumed to be in effect through the respective maturity date of each instrument.

(c)Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for five properties/parcels.

(d)Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, Vice Chairman and two former CEO’s based on actual and planned retirement dates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or different presentation of our financial statements.

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2011 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2010.

The Company has identified five significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The five critical accounting policies are:

Acquisition of Investment Properties

The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate, for indicators of impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal and environmental concerns, as well as the Company’s ability to hold and its intent with regard to each asset. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate

The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 15-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacements components over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.

54
Cost Capitalization

See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for a discussion of the Company’s policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes an allocation of the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as an increase to depreciable property.

For all development projects, the Company uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheet as construction-in-progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovations at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments

The valuation of financial instruments requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.

Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

For the year ended December 31, 2011, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units increased $129.4 million, or 20.8%, and $77.2 million, or 11.3%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units increased $7.3 million, or 1.2%, and $20.9 million, or 3.2%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.

The following is the Company's and the Operating Partnership's reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2011:

55
Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales and impairment write-downs of depreciable operating properties, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of apartment units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.

(2) Normalized funds from operations (“Normalized FFO”) begins with FFO and excludes:

▪the impact of any expenses relating to non-operating asset impairment and valuation allowances;

▪property acquisition and other transaction costs related to mergers and acquisitions and pursuit cost write-offs (other expenses);

▪gains and losses from early debt extinguishment, including prepayment penalties, preferred share/preference unit redemptions and the cost related to the implied option value of non-cash convertible debt discounts;

▪gains and losses on the sales of non-operating assets, including gains and losses from land parcel and condominium sales, net of the effect of income tax benefits or expenses; and

▪other miscellaneous non-comparable items.

(3)The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available 

56
to Common Shares and Units / Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. The company also believes that Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company because they allow investors to compare the company’s operating performance to its performance in prior reporting periods and to the operating performance of other real estate companies without the effect of items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period and tend to obscure the Company’s actual operating results. FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.

(4)FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares / Units and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares/preference units in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk