PART I  

  Item 1.    Business.    

 M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and under Article III-A of the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The principal executive offices of the Registrant are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. The Registrant was incorporated in November 1969. The Registrant and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company.” As of December 31, 2007 the Company had consolidated total assets of $64.9 billion, deposits of $41.3 billion and stockholders’ equity of $6.5 billion. The Company had 12,422 full-time and 1,447 part-time employees as of December 31, 2007.  

 At December 31, 2007, the Registrant had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries: M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National Association (“M&T Bank, N.A.”). The banks collectively offer a wide range of commercial banking, trust and investment services to their customers. At December 31, 2007, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of the Company. M&T Bank operates branch offices in New York, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia.  

 The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company’s business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review different opportunities, including the possibility of major acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.  

 Relationship With Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c.  

 On April 1, 2003, M&T completed the acquisition of Allfirst Financial Inc. (“Allfirst”), a bank holding company headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland from Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. (“AIB”). Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated September 26, 2002 by and among AIB, Allfirst and M&T (the “Reorganization Agreement”), M&T combined with Allfirst through the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding Allfirst stock in exchange for 26,700,000 shares of M&T common stock and $886,107,000 in cash paid to AIB. In addition, there were several M&T corporate governance changes that resulted from the transaction. While it maintains a significant ownership in M&T, AIB will have representation on the M&T board, the M&T Bank board and key M&T board committees and will have certain protections of its rights as a substantial M&T shareholder. In addition, AIB will have rights that will facilitate its ability to maintain its proportionate ownership position in M&T. M&T will also have representation on the AIB board while AIB remains a significant shareholder. The following is a description of the ongoing relationship between M&T and AIB. The following description is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Reorganization Agreement. The Reorganization Agreement was filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on October 3, 2002 as Exhibit 2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of M&T dated September 26, 2002.  

 Board of Directors; Management  

 At December 31, 2007, AIB held approximately 24.3% of the issued and outstanding shares of M&T common stock. In defining their relationship after the acquisition, M&T and AIB negotiated certain agreements regarding share ownership and corporate governance issues such as board representation, with the number of AIB’s representatives on the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors being dependent upon the amount of M&T common stock held by AIB. M&T has the right to one seat on the AIB board of directors until AIB no longer holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock. Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, AIB has the right to name four members to serve on the Boards of Directors of M&T and M&T Bank, each of whom must be reasonably acceptable to M&T (collectively, the “AIB Designees”). Further, one of the AIB Designees will serve on each of the Executive Committee, Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and Audit and Risk Committee (or any committee or committees performing comparable functions) of the M&T board of directors. In order to serve, the AIB Designees must meet the requisite independence and expertise requirements prescribed under applicable law or stock exchange rules. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement provides that the board of directors of M&T Bank will include four members designated by AIB, each of whom must be reasonably acceptable to M&T.  

 4   
 As long as AIB remains a significant shareholder of M&T, AIB will have representation on the boards of directors of both M&T and M&T Bank as follows:  

    •   As long as AIB holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, AIB will be entitled to designate four persons on both the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors and representation on the committees of the M&T board described above.   

    •   If AIB holds at least 10%, but less than 15%, of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, AIB will be entitled to designate at least two people on both the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors.   

    •   If AIB’s ownership interest in M&T is at least 5%, but less than 10%, of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, AIB will be entitled to designate at least one person on both the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors.   

    •   As long as AIB holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, neither M&T’s board of directors nor M&T Bank’s board of directors will consist of more than twenty-eight directors without the consent of the AIB Designees.   

    •   If AIB’s holdings of M&T common stock fall below 15%, but not lower than 12% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, AIB will continue to have the same rights that it would have had if it owned 15% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, as long as AIB restores its ownership percentage to 15% within one year. Additionally, as described in more detail below, M&T has agreed to repurchase shares of M&T common stock in order to offset dilution to AIB’s ownership interests that may otherwise be caused by issuances of M&T common stock under M&T employee and director benefit or stock purchase plans. Dilution of AIB’s ownership position caused by such issuances will not be counted in determining whether the “Sunset Date” has occurred or whether any of AIB’s other rights under the Reorganization Agreement have terminated. The “Sunset Date” is the date on which AIB no longer holds at least 15% of the M&T common stock, calculated as described in this paragraph.    

 The AIB Designees at December 31, 2007 were Michael D. Buckley, Colm E. Doherty, Richard G. King and Eugene J. Sheehy. Mr. Buckley serves as a member of the Executive Committee and the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and Mr. King serves as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee. Robert G. Wilmers, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of M&T, is a member of the AIB board of directors.  

 Amendments to M&T’s Bylaws  

 Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, M&T amended and restated its bylaws. The following is a description of the amended bylaws:  

 The amended bylaws provide that until the Sunset Date, the M&T board of directors may not take or make any recommendation to M&T’s shareholders regarding the following actions without the approval of the Executive Committee, including the approval of the AIB Designee serving on the committee:  

    •   Any amendment of M&T’s Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws that would be inconsistent with the rights described herein or that would otherwise have an adverse effect on the board representation, committee representation or other rights of AIB contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement;   

    •   Any activity not permissible for a U.S. bank holding company;   

    •   The adoption of any shareholder rights plan or other measures having the purpose or effect of preventing or materially delaying completion of any transaction involving a change in control of M&T; and   

    •   Any public announcement disclosing M&T’s desire or intention to take any of the foregoing actions.    

 The amended bylaws also provide that until the Sunset Date, the M&T board of directors may only take or make any recommendation to M&T’s shareholders regarding the following actions if the action has been approved by the Executive Committee (in the case of the first four items and sixth item below) or Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee (in the case of the fifth item below)  

 5   
 and the members of such committee not voting in favor of the action do not include the AIB Designee serving on such committee and at least one other member of the committee who is not an AIB Designee:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The provisions of the bylaws described above may not be amended or repealed without the unanimous approval of the entire M&T board of directors or the approval of the holders of not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock. The provisions of the bylaws described above will automatically terminate when AIB holds less than 5% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock.  

 Investment Parameters  

 The Reorganization Agreement provides that through the second anniversary of the Sunset Date, without prior written consent of the M&T board of directors, AIB will not, directly or indirectly, acquire or offer to acquire (except by way of stock dividends, offerings made available to M&T shareholders generally, or pursuant to compensation plans) more than 25% of the then outstanding shares of M&T common stock. Further, during this period, AIB and AIB’s subsidiaries have agreed not to participate in any proxy solicitation or to otherwise seek to influence any M&T shareholder with respect to the voting of any shares of M&T common stock for the approval of any shareholder proposals.  

 The Reorganization Agreement also provides that, during this period, AIB will not make any public announcement with respect to any proposal or offer by AIB or any AIB subsidiary with respect to certain transactions (such as mergers, business combinations, tender or exchange offers, the sale or purchase of securities or similar transactions) involving M&T or any of the M&T subsidiaries. The Reorganization Agreement also provides that, during this period, AIB may not subject any shares of M&T common stock to any voting trust or voting arrangement or agreement and will not execute any written consent as a shareholder with respect to the M&T common stock.  

 The Reorganization Agreement also provides that, during this period, AIB will not seek to control or influence the management, the board of directors or policies of M&T, including through communications with shareholders of M&T or otherwise, except through non-public communications with the directors of M&T, including the AIB Designees.  

 These restrictions on AIB will no longer apply if a third party commences or announces its intention to commence a tender offer or an exchange offer and, within a reasonable time, the M&T board of directors either does not recommend that shareholders not accept the offer or fails to adopt a shareholders rights plan, or if M&T or M&T Bank becomes subject to any regulatory capital directive or becomes an institution in “troubled” condition under applicable banking regulations. However, in the event the tender offer or exchange offer is not commenced or consummated in accordance with its terms, the restrictions on AIB described above will thereafter continue to apply.  

 Anti-Dilution Protections  

 M&T has agreed that until the Sunset Date, in the event M&T issues shares of M&T stock (other than certain issuances to employees pursuant to option and benefit plans), subject to applicable law and  

 6   
 regulatory requirements, AIB will have the right to purchase at fair market value up to the number of shares of M&T common stock required to increase or maintain its equity interest in M&T to 22.5% of the then outstanding M&T common stock.  

 M&T has also agreed that until the Sunset Date, in connection with any issuance of M&T stock pursuant to employee option or benefit plans, M&T will as soon as reasonably practicable, taking into account applicable law, regulatory capital requirements, capital planning and risk management, take such necessary actions so that AIB’s proportionate ownership of M&T common stock is not reduced as a result of such issuances, including by funding such issuances through purchases of M&T common stock in the open market or by undertaking share repurchase programs.  

 Sale of M&T Common Stock; Right of First Refusal in Certain Circumstances  

 The M&T common stock issued to AIB was not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and may only be disposed of by AIB pursuant to an effective registration statement or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and subject to the provisions of the Reorganization Agreement.  

 M&T and AIB have entered into a registration rights agreement that provides that upon AIB’s request, M&T will file a registration statement relating to all or a portion of AIB’s shares of M&T common stock providing for the sale of such shares by AIB from time to time on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, provided that M&T need only effect one such “shelf registration” in any 12-month period. In addition, the registration rights agreement provides that AIB is entitled to demand registration under the Securities Act of all or part of its shares of M&T stock, provided that M&T is not obligated to effect two such “demand registrations” in any 12-month period. Any demand or shelf registration must cover no less than one million shares.  

 The registration rights agreement further provides that in the event M&T proposes to file a registration statement other than pursuant to a shelf registration or demand registration or Forms S-8 or S-4, for an offering and sale of shares by M&T in an underwritten offering or an offering and sale of shares on behalf of one or more selling shareholders, M&T must give AIB notice at least 15 days prior to the anticipated filing date, and AIB may request that all or a portion of its M&T common shares be included in the registration statement. M&T will honor the request, unless the managing underwriter advises M&T in writing that in its opinion the inclusion of all shares requested to be included by M&T, the other selling shareholders, if any, and AIB would materially and adversely affect the offering, in which case M&T may limit the number of shares included in the offering to a number that would not reasonably be expected to have such an effect. In such event, the number of shares to be included in the registration statement shall first include the number of shares requested to be included by M&T and then the shares requested by other selling shareholders, including AIB, on a pro rata basis according to the number of shares requested to be included in the registration statement by each shareholder.  

 As long as AIB holds 5% or more of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, AIB will not dispose of any of its shares of M&T common stock except, subject to the terms and conditions of the Reorganization Agreement and applicable law, in a widely dispersed public distribution; a private placement in which no one party acquires the right to purchase more than 2% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock; an assignment to a single party (such as a broker or investment banker) for the purpose of conducting a widely dispersed public distribution on AIB’s behalf; pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act; pursuant to a tender or exchange offer to M&T’s shareholders not opposed by M&T’s board of directors, or open market purchase programs made by M&T; with the consent of M&T, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld, to a controlled subsidiary of AIB; or pursuant to M&T’s right of first refusal as described below.  

 The Reorganization Agreement provides that until AIB no longer holds at least 5% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, if AIB wishes to sell or otherwise transfer any of its shares of M&T common stock other than as described in the preceding paragraph, AIB must first submit an offer notice to M&T identifying the proposed transferee and setting forth the proposed terms of the transaction, which shall be limited to sales for cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities. M&T will have the right, for 20 days following receipt of an offer notice from AIB, to purchase all (but not less than all) of the shares of M&T common stock that AIB wishes to sell, on the proposed terms specified in  

 7   
 the offer notice. If M&T declines or fails to respond to the offer notice within 20 days, AIB may sell all or a portion of the M&T shares specified in the offer notice to the proposed transferee at a purchase price equal to or greater than the price specified in the offer notice, at any time during the three months following the date of the offer notice, or, if prior notification to or approval of the sale by the Federal Reserve Board or another regulatory agency is required, AIB shall pursue regulatory approval expeditiously and the sale may occur on the first date permitted under applicable law.  

 Certain Post-Closing Bank Regulatory Matters  

 The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”) deems AIB to be M&T’s bank holding company for purposes of the BHCA. In addition, the New York Banking Superintendent (“Banking Superintendent”) deems AIB to be M&T’s bank holding company for purposes of Article III-A of the Banking Law. Among other things, this means that, should M&T propose to make an acquisition or engage in a new type of activity that requires the submission of an application or notice to the Federal Reserve Board or the Banking Superintendent, AIB, as well as M&T, may also be required to file an application or notice. The Reorganization Agreement generally provides that AIB will make any applications, notices or filings that M&T determines to be necessary or desirable. The Reorganization Agreement also requires AIB not to take any action that would have a material adverse effect on M&T and to advise M&T prior to entering into any material transaction or activity. These provisions of the Reorganization Agreement would no longer apply if AIB ceased to be M&T’s bank holding company and also was not otherwise considered to control M&T for purposes of the BHCA.  

 Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, if, as a result of any administrative enforcement action under Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDI Act”), memorandum of understanding, written agreement, supervisory letter or any other action or determination of any regulatory agency relating to the status of AIB (but not relating to the conduct of M&T or any subsidiary of M&T), M&T or M&T Bank also becomes subject to such an action, memorandum, agreement or letter that relates to M&T or any M&T subsidiary, or experiences any fact, event or circumstance that affects M&T’s regulatory status or compliance, and that in either case would be reasonably likely to create a material burden on M&T or to cause any material adverse economic or operating consequences to M&T or an M&T subsidiary (a “Material Regulatory Event”), then M&T will notify AIB thereof in writing as promptly as practicable. Should AIB fail to cure the Material Regulatory Event within 90 days following the receipt of such notice, AIB will, as promptly as practicable but in no event later than 30 days from the end of the cure period, take any and all such actions (with the reasonable cooperation of M&T as requested by AIB) as may be necessary or advisable in order that it no longer has “control” of M&T for purposes of the BHCA, including, if necessary, by selling some or all of its shares of M&T common stock (subject to the right of first refusal provisions of the Reorganization Agreement) and divesting itself as required of its board and committee representation and governance rights as set forth in the Reorganization Agreement. If, at the end of such 30-day period, the Material Regulatory Event is continuing and AIB has not terminated its control of M&T, then M&T will have the right to repurchase, at fair market value, such amount of the M&T common stock owned by AIB as would result in AIB holding no less than 4.9% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock, pursuant to the procedures detailed in the Reorganization Agreement.  

 As long as AIB is considered to “control” M&T for purposes of the BHCA or the federal Change in Bank Control Act, if AIB acquires any insured depository institution with total assets greater than 25% of the assets of M&T’s largest insured depository institution subsidiary, then within two years AIB must terminate its affiliation with the insured depository institution or take such steps as may be necessary so that none of M&T’s bank subsidiaries would be subject to “cross guarantee” liability for losses incurred if the institution AIB acquired potentially were to fail. This liability applies under the FDI Act to insured depository institutions that are commonly controlled. The actions AIB would take could include disposing of shares of M&T common stock and/or surrendering its representation or governance rights. Also, if such an insured depository institution that is controlled by AIB and of the size described in the first sentence of this paragraph that would be considered to be commonly controlled with M&T’s insured depository institution subsidiaries fails to meet applicable requirements to be “adequately capitalized” under applicable U.S. banking laws, then AIB will have to take the actions described in the previous  

 8   
 sentence no later than 180 days after the date that the institution failed to meet those requirements, unless the institution is sooner returned to “adequately capitalized” status.  

 Subsidiaries  

 M&T Bank is a banking corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the State of New York. M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank System, and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. M&T acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in December 1969. The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of M&T. M&T Bank operates under a charter granted by the State of New York in 1892, and the continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856. The principal executive offices of M&T Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Bank had 704 banking offices located throughout New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, plus a branch in George Town, Cayman Islands. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Bank had consolidated total assets of $64.1 billion, deposits of $41.1 billion and stockholder’s equity of $6.8 billion. The deposit liabilities of M&T Bank are insured by the FDIC through its Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of which, at December 31, 2007, $37.4 billion were assessable. As a commercial bank, M&T Bank offers a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in its markets. Lending is largely focused on consumers residing in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, northern Virginia and Washington, D.C., and on small and medium-size businesses based in those areas, although residential and commercial real estate loans are originated through lending offices in 20 other states. In addition, the Company conducts lending activities in various states through other subsidiaries. M&T Bank and certain of its subsidiaries also offer commercial mortgage loans secured by income producing properties or properties used by borrowers in a trade or business. Additional financial services are provided through other operating subsidiaries of the Company. Effective January 1, 2007, M&T Mortgage Corporation, previously a wholly owned mortgage banking subsidiary of M&T Bank, was merged into M&T Bank.  

 M&T Bank, N.A., a national banking association and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of M&T Bank, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main office of M&T Bank, N.A. is located at 48 Main Street, Oakfield, New York 14125. M&T Bank, N.A. offers selected deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, primarily through direct mail and telephone marketing techniques. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Bank, N.A. had total assets of $376 million, deposits of $229 million and stockholder’s equity of $81 million.  

 M&T Life Insurance Company (“M&T Life Insurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, was incorporated as an Arizona business corporation in January 1984. M&T Life Insurance is a captive credit reinsurer which reinsures credit life and accident and health insurance purchased by the Company’s consumer loan customers. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Life Insurance had assets of $33 million and stockholder’s equity of $28 million. M&T Life Insurance recorded revenues of $2 million during 2007. Headquarters of M&T Life Insurance are located at 101 North First Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona 85003.  

 M&T Credit Services, LLC (“M&T Credit”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, is a New York limited liability company formed in June 2004, but its operations can be traced to a predecessor company that was a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank formed in 1994. M&T Credit is a credit and leasing company offering consumer loans and commercial loans and leases. Its headquarters are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203, and it has offices in Delaware, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Credit had assets of $4.2 billion and stockholder’s equity of $506 million. M&T Credit recorded $231 million of revenue during 2007.  

 M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency services principally to the commercial market. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of $39 million and stockholder’s equity of $24 million. M&T  

 9   
 Insurance Agency recorded revenues of $21 million during 2007. The headquarters of M&T Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York 14202.  

 M&T Investment Company of Delaware, Inc. (“M&T Investment”), is a subsidiary of M&T Bank that was formed on November 17, 2004. M&T Investment owns all of the outstanding common stock and 88% of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate Trust. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Investment had assets and stockholder’s equity of approximately $14.7 billion. Excluding dividends from M&T Real Estate Trust, M&T Investment realized $23 million of revenue in 2007. The headquarters of M&T Investment are located at 501 Silverside Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19809.  

 M&T Lease, LLC (“M&T Lease”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, is a Delaware limited liability company formed in June 2004, but its operations can be traced to a predecessor company that was a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank formed in 1994. M&T Lease is a consumer leasing company with headquarters at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Lease had assets of $51 million and stockholder’s equity of $44 million. M&T Lease recorded $3 million of revenue during 2007.  

 M&T Mortgage Reinsurance Company, Inc. (“M&T Reinsurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Vermont business corporation in July 1999. M&T Reinsurance enters into reinsurance contracts with insurance companies who insure against the risk of a mortgage borrower’s payment default in connection with M&T Mortgage-related mortgage loans. M&T Reinsurance receives a share of the premium for those policies in exchange for accepting a portion of the insurer’s risk of borrower default. M&T Reinsurance had assets and stockholder’s equity of approximately $24 million each as of December 31, 2007, and recorded approximately $5 million of revenue during 2007. M&T Reinsurance’s principal and registered office is at 148 College Street, Burlington, Vermont 05401.  

 M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust and is a subsidiary of M&T Investment. M&T Real Estate was formed through the merger of two separate subsidiaries, but traces its origin to M&T Real Estate, Inc., a New York business corporation incorporated in July 1995. M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Real Estate had assets of $15.0 billion, common stockholder’s equity of $14.2 billion, and preferred stockholders’ equity, consisting of 9% fixed-rate preferred stock (par value $1,000), of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 88% of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by M&T Investment. The remaining 12% of M&T Real Estate’s outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded $965 million of revenue in 2007. The headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.  

 M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T Realty Capital engages in multi-family commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans it originates. As of December 31, 2007 M&T Realty Capital serviced $5.3 billion of commercial mortgage loans for non-affiliates and had assets of $145 million and stockholder’s equity of $42 million. M&T Realty Capital recorded revenues of $31 million in 2007. The headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at 25 South Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.  

 M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended. M&T Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Securities had assets of $40 million and stockholder’s equity of $27 million. M&T Securities recorded $88 million of revenue during 2007. The headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.  

 M&T Auto Receivables I, LLC (“M&T Auto Receivables”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in May 2002. M&T Auto Receivables is a special purpose entity whose activities are generally restricted to purchasing and owning automobile loans for the purpose of securing a revolving asset-backed structured borrowing. M&T Auto Receivables had  

 10   
 assets of $557 million and stockholder’s equity of $51 million as of December 31, 2007, and recorded approximately $23 million of revenue during 2007. M&T Auto Receivables’ registered office is at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.  

 MTB Investment Advisors, Inc. (“MTB Investment Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995. MTB Investment Advisors serves as investment advisor to the MTB Group of Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2007, MTB Investment Advisors had assets of $32 million and stockholder’s equity of $28 million. MTB Investment Advisors recorded revenues of $47 million in 2007. The headquarters of MTB Investment Advisors are located at 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.  

 The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets, net income and stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2007.  

 Segment Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign Operations  

 Information about the Registrant’s business segments is included in note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The Company’s international activities are discussed in note 16 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

 The only activity that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any of the last three years was lending transactions. The amount of income from such sources during those years is set forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

 Supervision and Regulation of the Company  

 The banking industry is subject to extensive state and federal regulation and continues to undergo significant change. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of the banking laws and regulations that affect the Company. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress, in state legislatures, and before the various bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have on the Company are impossible to determine with any certainty. A change in applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material impact on the business, operations and earnings of the Company. To the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified entirely by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision.  

 Financial Services Modernization  

 Under the BHCA, bank holding companies are permitted to offer their customers virtually any type of financial service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both underwriting and agency), and merchant banking.  

 In order to engage in these financial activities, a bank holding company must qualify and register with the Federal Reserve Board as a “financial holding company” by demonstrating that each of its bank subsidiaries is “well capitalized,” “well managed,” and has at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”). M&T currently satisfies the qualifications for registering as a financial holding company, but has not elected to do so to date. For as long as AIB owns at least 15% of M&T’s outstanding common stock, M&T may not become a financial holding company without  

 11   
 the approval of the Executive Committee of the M&T board of directors, which must also include the affirmative approval of the AIB Designee on such committee, as described above under the caption “Amendments to M&T’s Bylaws.”  

 The financial activities authorized by the BHCA may also be engaged in by a “financial subsidiary” of a national or state bank, except for insurance or annuity underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate investment and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducted in a financial holding company. In order for these financial activities to be engaged in by a financial subsidiary of a national or state bank, federal law requires each of the parent bank (and its sister-bank affiliates) to be well capitalized and well managed; the aggregate consolidated assets of all of that bank’s financial subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or other comparable requirements. M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. currently satisfy the qualifications for engaging in financial activities through financial subsidiaries, but neither has elected to do so to date. Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the federal banking agencies will regulate the banking activities of financial holding companies and banks’ financial subsidiaries, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will regulate their securities activities, and state insurance regulators will regulate their insurance activities. Rules developed by the federal financial institutions regulators under these laws require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent the disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties.  

 Bank Holding Company Regulation  

 As a registered bank holding company, the Registrant and its nonbank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation under the BHCA by the Federal Reserve Board and under the Banking Law by the Banking Superintendent. The Federal Reserve Board requires regular reports from the Registrant and is authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the Registrant and its subsidiaries.  

 The Registrant may not acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company, including a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, except as specifically authorized under the BHCA. The Registrant is also subject to regulation under the Banking Law with respect to certain acquisitions of domestic banks. Under the BHCA, the Registrant, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, may acquire shares of non-banking corporations the activities of which are deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.  

 The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries, among other things, to interdict activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative orders or written agreements with a federal bank regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions.  

 Under the Federal Reserve Board’s statement of policy with respect to bank holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit all available resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. Although this “source of strength” policy has been challenged in litigation, the Federal Reserve Board continues to take the position that it has authority to enforce it. For a discussion of circumstances under which a bank holding company may be required to guarantee the capital levels or performance of its subsidiary banks, see “Capital Adequacy,” below. Consistent with this “source of strength” policy, the Federal Reserve Board takes the position that a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the company’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve also has the authority to terminate any activity of a bank holding company that constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any subsidiary depository institution or to terminate its control of any bank or nonbank subsidiaries.  

 12   
 The BHCA generally permits bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state, and preempts all state laws restricting the ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one state. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDI Act”) also permits a bank to merge with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank if both states have not opted out of interstate branching; permits a bank to acquire branches from an out-of-state bank if the law of the state where the branches are located permits the interstate branch acquisition; and permits banks to establish and operate de novo interstate branches whenever the host state opts-in to de novo branching. Bank holding companies and banks seeking to engage in transactions authorized by these laws must be adequately capitalized and managed.  

 The Banking Law authorizes interstate branching by merger or acquisition on a reciprocal basis, and permits the acquisition of a single branch without restriction, but does not provide for de novo interstate branching.  

 Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks are also subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the Federal Reserve Board (or other appropriate bank regulatory agency) is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. During these examinations, the Federal Reserve Board (or other appropriate bank regulatory agency) rates such bank’s compliance with the CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” The failure of a bank to receive at least a “Satisfactory” rating could inhibit such bank or its bank holding company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions of other financial institutions or opening or relocating a branch office, as further discussed below. M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” and M&T Bank, N.A. has a CRA rating of “Satisfactory.” Furthermore, such assessment is also required of any bank that has applied, among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of a federally-regulated financial institution, or to open or relocate a branch office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application. The Banking Law contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable to New York-chartered banks. M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” as determined by the New York State Banking Department.  

 Supervision and Regulation of Bank Subsidiaries  

 The Registrant’s bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation, and are examined regularly, by various bank regulatory agencies: M&T Bank by the Federal Reserve Board and the Banking Superintendent; and M&T Bank, N.A. by the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). The Registrant and its direct non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates, within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, of the Registrant’s subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries. As a result, the Registrant’s subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on loans or extensions of credit to, purchases of assets from, investments in, and transactions with the Registrant and its direct non-banking subsidiaries and on certain other transactions with them or involving their securities. Similar restrictions are imposed on the Registrant’s subsidiary banks making loans or extending credit to, purchasing assets from, investing in, or entering into transactions with, their financial subsidiaries.  

 Under the “cross-guarantee” provisions of the FDI Act, insured depository institutions under common control are required to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered by the FDIC as a result of the default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in danger of default. Thus, any insured depository institution subsidiary of M&T could incur liability to the FDIC in the event of a default of another insured depository institution owned or controlled by M&T. The FDIC’s claim under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of stockholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company and to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF.  

 13   
 Dividends from Bank Subsidiaries  

 The Registrant is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The majority of the Registrant’s revenue is from dividends paid to the Registrant by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the banking laws, to restrictions on the amount of dividend declarations. Future dividend payments to the Registrant by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies.  

 An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed herein.  

 Supervision and Regulation of M&T Bank’s Subsidiaries  

 M&T Bank has a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in which they conduct business. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators.  

 Capital Adequacy  

 The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted risk-based capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies and banks under their supervision. Under these guidelines, the so-called “Tier 1 capital” and “Total capital” as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet instruments must be at least 4% and 8%, respectively.  

 The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have also imposed a leverage standard to supplement their risk-based ratios. This leverage standard focuses on a banking institution’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, adjusted for goodwill and certain other items. Under these guidelines, banking institutions that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%. Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, along with those experiencing or anticipating significant growth are expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio equal to at least 4% to 5%. As reflected in the table in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” the risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios of the Registrant, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. as of December 31, 2007 exceeded the required capital ratios for classification as “well capitalized,” the highest classification under the regulatory capital guidelines.  

 The federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, maintain risk-based capital standards in order to ensure that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk, the risk of nontraditional activities and equity investments in nonfinancial companies, as well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on certain multifamily housing loans. Bank regulators periodically propose amendments to the risk-based capital guidelines and related regulatory framework, and consider changes to the risk-based capital standards that could significantly increase the amount of capital needed to meet the requirements for the capital tiers described below. While the Company’s management studies such proposals, the timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of any such proposed amendments on M&T’s capital requirements and operations cannot be predicted.  

 The federal banking agencies are required to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions and their bank holding companies that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDI Act establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier, or that of its bank holding company, depends upon where its capital levels are in relation to various  

 14   
 relevant capital measures, including a risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain other factors.  

 Under the implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, a bank holding company or bank is considered “well capitalized” if it has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and (iv) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An “adequately capitalized” bank holding company or bank is defined as one that has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater and (iii) a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (or 3% or greater in the case of a bank with a composite CAMELS rating of 1). A bank holding company or bank is considered (A) “undercapitalized” if it has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4% (or 3% in the case of a bank with a composite CAMELS rating of 1); (B) “significantly undercapitalized” if the bank has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, or (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 3% and (C) “critically undercapitalized” if the bank has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets equal to or less than 2%. The Federal Reserve Board may reclassify a “well capitalized” bank holding company or bank as “adequately capitalized” or subject an “adequately capitalized” or “undercapitalized” institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if it determines that the bank holding company or bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the bank holding company or bank to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency. M&T, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. currently meet the definition of “well capitalized” institutions.  

 “Undercapitalized” depository institutions, among other things, are subject to growth limitations, are prohibited, with certain exceptions, from making capital distributions, are limited in their ability to obtain funding from a Federal Reserve Bank and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan and provide appropriate assurances of performance. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, including if the holding company refuses or is unable to make the guarantee described in the previous sentence, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” Failure to submit or implement an acceptable capital plan also is grounds for the appointment of a conservator or a receiver. “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of additional requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Moreover, the parent holding company of a “significantly undercapitalized” depository institution may be ordered to divest itself of the institution or of nonbank subsidiaries of the holding company. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions, among other things, are prohibited from making any payments of principal and interest on subordinated debt, and are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.  

 Each federal banking agency prescribes standards for depository institutions and depository institution holding companies relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified assets to capital, minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum ratio of market value to book value for publicly traded shares and other standards as they deem appropriate. The Federal Reserve Board and OCC have adopted such standards.  

 Depository institutions that are not “well capitalized” or “adequately capitalized” and have not received a waiver from the FDIC are prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2007, M&T Bank had approximately $1.9 billion of brokered deposits, while M&T Bank, N.A. did not have any brokered deposits at that date.  

 Although M&T has issued shares of common stock in connection with acquisitions or at other times, the Company has generally maintained capital ratios in excess of minimum regulatory guidelines largely through internal capital generation (i.e. net income less dividends paid). Historically, M&T’s  

 15   
 dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, when compared with other bank holding companies, has been relatively low, thereby allowing for capital retention to support growth or to facilitate purchases of M&T’s common stock to be held as treasury stock. Management’s policy of reinvestment of earnings and repurchase of shares of common stock is intended to enhance M&T’s earnings per share prospects and thereby reward stockholders over time with capital gains in the form of increased stock price rather than high dividend income.  

 FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments  

 As institutions with deposits insured by the FDIC, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Under the provisions of the FDI Act, the regular insurance assessments to be paid by insured institutions are specified in schedules issued by the FDIC that specify a target reserve ratio designed to maintain that ratio between 1.15% and 1.50% of estimated insured deposits.  

 Under the FDI Act, the FDIC imposed deposit insurance assessments based on one of four assessment categories depending on the institution’s capital classification under the prompt corrective action provisions described above, and an institution’s long-term debt issuer ratings. Effective January 1, 2007, the adjusted assessment rates for insured institutions under the modified system range from .05% to .43% depending upon the assessment category into which the insured institution is placed. The annual assessment rates for M&T Bank and M&T Bank N.A. during 2007 were approximately .05%.  

 The FDI Act also allows for a one-time assessment credit for eligible insured depository institutions (those institutions that were in existence on December 31, 1996 and paid a deposit insurance assessment prior to that date, or are a successor to any such institution). The credit is determined based on the assessment base of the institution as of December 31, 1996 as compared with the combined aggregate assessment base of all eligible institutions as of that date. The credit may be used to offset up to 100% of the 2007 DIF assessment, and if not completely used in 2007, may be applied to not more than 90% of each of the aggregate 2008, 2009 and 2010 DIF assessments. M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. offset 100% of their DIF assessments with available one-time assessment credits during 2007. For the first nine months of 2007, credits utilized to offset amounts assessed for M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. totaled $14 million and $108 thousand, respectively. Fourth quarter 2007 assessments for M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A., which will be assessed in March 2008 and will also be completely offset by available credits, are estimated to be approximately $5 million and $30 thousand, respectively.  

 The current insurance assessment system is not expected to have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations and capital of M&T Bank or M&T Bank, N.A. in 2008, as available credits will offset 90% of such assessments. However, any significant increases in assessment rates or additional special assessments by the FDIC could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and capital of M&T Bank or M&T Bank, N.A. As of December 31, 2007, available credits for M&T Bank are expected to be fully utilized by mid-2009.  

 In addition to insurance fund assessments, the FDIC assesses deposits to fund the repayment of debt obligations of the Financing Corporation (“FICO”). FICO is a government agency-sponsored entity that was formed to borrow the money necessary to carry out the closing and ultimate disposition of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust Corporation. The current annualized rate established by the FDIC is 1.14 basis points (hundredths of one percent).  

 Consumer Protection Laws  

 In connection with their respective lending and leasing activities, M&T Bank, certain of its subsidiaries, and M&T Bank, N.A. are each subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and various state law counterparts.  

 In addition, federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for  

 16   
 certain limited exceptions, a financial institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.  

 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented a broad range of corporate governance, accounting and reporting measures for companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act, including publicly-held bank holding companies such as M&T. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the various regulations promulgated thereunder, established, among other things: (i) new requirements for audit committees, including independence, expertise, and responsibilities; (ii) additional responsibilities regarding financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the reporting company; (iii) the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of the reporting company’s securities by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in the twelve-month period following the initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; (iv) the creation of an independent accounting oversight board; (v) new standards for auditors and regulation of audits, including independence provisions that restrict non-audit services that accountants may provide to their audit clients; (vi) increased disclosure and reporting obligations for the reporting company and their directors and executive officers, including accelerated reporting of stock transactions and a prohibition on trading during pension blackout periods; (vii) a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions on nonpreferential terms and in compliance with other bank regulatory requirements; and (viii) a range of new and increased civil and criminal penalties for fraud and other violations of the securities laws.  

 USA Patriot Act  

 The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) imposes additional obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker dealer subsidiaries, to implement policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed to detect and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank holding company acquisitions. The Registrant and its impacted subsidiaries have approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the USA Patriot Act.  

 Regulatory Impact of M&T’s Relationship With AIB  

 As described above under the caption “Relationship With Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c.,” AIB owns approximately 24.3% of the issued and outstanding shares of M&T common stock and has representation on the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors. As a result, AIB has become M&T’s bank holding company under the BHCA and the Banking Law and AIB’s relationship with M&T is subject to the statutes and regulations governing bank holding companies described above. Among other things, AIB will have to join M&T in applications by M&T for acquisitions and new activities. The Reorganization Agreement requires AIB to join in such applications at M&T’s request, subject to certain limitations. In addition, because AIB is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”), the CBI may assert jurisdiction over M&T as a company controlled by AIB. Additional discussion of the regulatory implications of the Allfirst acquisition for M&T is set forth above under the caption “Certain Post-Closing Bank Regulatory Matters.”  

 Governmental Policies  

 The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S. Government  

 17   
 securities and federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.  

 Competition  

 The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services with other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other industries, such as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities firms and insurance companies. Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, the provisions of Gramm-Leach have allowed for increased competition among diversified financial services providers, and the Interstate Banking Act and the Banking Law may be considered to have eased entry into New York State by out-of-state banking institutions. As a result, the number of financial services providers and banking institutions with which the Company competes may grow in the future.  

 Other Legislative Initiatives  

 Proposals may be introduced in the United States Congress and in the New York State Legislature and before various bank regulatory authorities which would alter the powers of, and restrictions on, different types of banking organizations and which would restructure part or all of the existing regulatory framework for banks, bank holding companies and other providers of financial services. Moreover, other bills may be introduced in Congress which would further regulate, deregulate or restructure the financial services industry. It is not possible to predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted into law or, even if enacted, the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.  

 Other Information  

 Through a link on the Investor Relations section of M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of M&T’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports and other information are also available at no charge to any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5445).  

 Corporate Governance  

 M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following corporate governance documents are also available on M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link: Disclosure Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit and Risk Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. Copies of such governance documents are also available, free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5445).  

 18   
 Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3  

 See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables.  

 Table 1  

 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Table 2  

 STOCKHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 19   
 Table 3  

 CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 20   
 Table 4  

 COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Table 5  

 CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on the separately determined volume and rate changes.   

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors.