Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Overview and Outlook  

L-3’s Business  

L-3 is a prime contractor in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems, Command, Control, Communications (C3) systems, aircraft modernization and sustainment of aircraft, maritime vessels and ground vehicles, and national security solutions. L-3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of electronic systems used on military and commercial platforms. Our customers include the DoD and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DoS), allied foreign governments, and domestic and foreign commercial customers.  

We have the following four reportable segments: (1) Electronic Systems, (2) C3ISR, (3) Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M), and (4) National Security Solutions (NSS). Financial information with respect to each of our segments is included in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements. Electronic Systems provides a broad range of products and services, including components, products, subsystems, systems, and related services to military and commercial customers in several niche markets across several business areas, including microwave, power & control systems, sensor systems, simulation & training, aviation products, precision engagement, warrior systems, security & detection, space & propulsion, undersea warfare and marine services. C3ISR provides products and services for the global ISR (intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) market, C3 systems, networked communications systems and secure communications products. We believe that these products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major command, control and communication, intelligence gathering and space systems. These products and services are used to connect a variety of airborne, space, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in the transmission, processing, recording, monitoring, and dissemination functions of these communication systems. AM&M provides modernization, upgrades and sustainment, maintenance and logistics support services for military and various government aircraft and other platforms. We sell these services primarily to the DoD, the Canadian Department of Defense and other allied foreign governments. NSS provides a full range of cyber security, intelligence, enterprise IT and security solutions services to the DoD, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, federal civilian agencies and allied foreign governments.  

33  

Table of Contents 

On July 17, 2012, L-3 completed the spin-off of its subsidiary, Engility Holdings, Inc. (Engility) to L-3’s shareholders. As a result of the spin-off, the assets, liabilities, non-controlling interest, results of operations and cash flows of the Engility businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. References to financial data are to L-3’s continuing operations, unless specifically noted. See “2012 Events” within this section for additional information.  

For the year ended December 31, 2012, we generated sales of $13,146 million. Our primary customer was the DoD. The table below presents a summary of our 2012 sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total 2012 sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Most of our contracts (revenue arrangements) with the U.S. Government are subject to U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency audits and various cost and pricing regulations, and include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Multiyear U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable. Foreign government contracts generally include comparable provisions relating to termination for the convenience of the relevant foreign government.  

Business Environment  

U.S. Government Markets. Sales to U.S. Government customers represented 76% of our 2012 sales, and were primarily to DoD customers, which comprised of 71% of our sales. Therefore, our annual sales are generally highly correlated to changes in U.S. Government spending levels, and especially DoD budget levels. Recent DoD budgets are declining, compared to the DoD budget growth that occurred during the last decade. The total DoD budget (base and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 (FY 2012) declined 6% compared to FY 2011, and the total DoD budget for FY 2011 was approximately unchanged compared to FY 2010. From FY 2000 to FY 2010, the total DoD budget grew at a compound annual rate of approximately 9%.  

In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). The BCA imposed spending caps and discretionary spending cuts of approximately $487 billion to DoD base budgets for FY 2012 to FY 2021, compared to previously proposed DoD base budgets. The BCA also triggered an automatic sequestration process, which was originally scheduled to become effective on January 2, 2013, that imposes additional budget cuts to U.S. national security accounts of approximately $490 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2021 and other U.S. Government budget cuts of another $500 billion to discretionary non-national security accounts. The national security spending cuts from sequestration are expected to mostly reduce DoD budgets by equally cutting funding for all DoD budget line items. The American Taxpayer Relief Act, enacted on January 2, 2013, delayed the implementation of the BCA sequestration cuts to March 1, 2013, reduced the sequester cut to the FY 2013 DoD budget to approximately $46 billion and increased the sequester cut for FY 2014 to approximately $59 billion.  

34  

Table of Contents 

On February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration (“Administration”) submitted its FY 2013 proposed budget (FY 2013 DoD Plan) to Congress which complies with the first phase of the BCA imposed spending cuts, but does not address the BCA sequestration cuts. The FY 2013 DoD Plan reduced DoD base budgets by $259 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2017, compared to the previously proposed budgets. Congress has not yet authorized or appropriated a FY 2013 DoD budget. Instead, Congress enacted a six-month Continuing Resolution Authority (“CRA”) which funds the DoD until March 27, 2013, at levels similar to the DoD FY12 budget, however the ultimate DoD FY 2013 budget must comply with the BCA sequestration provisions.  

The FY 2013 DoD Plan revised national security strategy along five core tenets, to: (1) rebalance military posture towards the Asia-Pacific global region, while leveraging partners in other regions to preserve U.S. military presence, (2) resizing military forces to enable the defeat of one foe while imposing unacceptable costs on another foe, (3) protect key investments for next generation capabilities, particularly versus anti-access/area denial threats, (4) not sizing forces for sustained stabilization operations, but preserving such military expertise, and (5) structuring military budget cuts, if possible, to allow for the reversal or regeneration of military capabilities. The FY 2013 DoD Plan also contains funding priorities, trade-offs and risks for high-end strike and power projection; special operations, advanced ISR and cyber security; favoring multi-mission and common fleets across the DoD Armed Services; accepting risk inherent in smaller military forces; and shielding active military duty personnel from pay and healthcare cuts. The FY 2013 DoD Plan also includes more disciplined use of resources from efficiency initiatives in acquisition and management of equipment and services procured by the DoD from private industry, select program terminations, restructurings and deferrals; and, reprioritization of key missions. The table below presents the enacted DoD budget (base and OCO) for FY 2012 and the proposed DoD budgets for FY 2013 to FY 2017, as provided in the FY 2013 DoD Plan.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe L-3 is well positioned to benefit from several of the DoD’s focus areas. However, declining DoD budgets, will generally pressure and possibly reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements, which can negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. The in-process withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014 is expected to continue to negatively impact our sales related to supporting U.S. military operations in Afghanistan. Additionally, if the DoD budget sequestration cuts occur, we expect that they will negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows, and could potentially trigger goodwill impairment charges. See “Critical Accounting Policies – Goodwill and Identifiable Assets” within this section.  

The Administration’s proposed DoD FY 2014 budget or plan, which was scheduled for release in February 2013, has been delayed to March 2013 or later, due to the ongoing debate between the Administration and Congress about U.S Federal government deficit reduction, including spending and revenues, debt levels and the BCA sequestration cuts.  

Commercial and International Markets. Sales to end customers other than the U.S. Government represented 24% of our 2012 sales. These sales are generally affected by global economic conditions for our commercial end markets and foreign government security and military priorities, as well as the fiscal situations of our foreign government end customers.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Key Performance Measures  

The primary financial performance measures that we use to manage our businesses and monitor results of operations are sales trends and operating income trends. Management believes that these financial performance measures are the primary growth drivers for our earnings and cash flow per common share. One of our primary business objectives is to increase sales from organic growth and select business acquisitions. We define organic sales growth as the increase or decrease in sales for the current period compared to the prior period, excluding sales in the: (1) current period from business acquisitions that are included in our actual results of operations for less than twelve months, and (2) prior period from business and product line divestitures that are included in our actual results of operations for the twelve-month period prior to the divestiture date. We expect to supplement, strengthen and enhance our existing businesses by selectively acquiring new businesses that: (1) add important new technologies and products, (2) provide access to select customers, programs and contracts, and (3) provide attractive returns on investment. Another important financial performance measure that we use is operating margin, which we define as operating income as a percentage of sales, because sales growth combined with operating margin levels determine our operating income levels.  

Sales Trends. For the year ended December 31, 2012, consolidated net sales of $13,146 million declined by 0.1%, comprised of an organic sales decline of 1.6%, partially offset by net sales from business acquisitions of 1.5%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Our average annual sales growth for the five years ended December 31, 2012 was 3%, with average annual organic sales growth of approximately 2% and average annual sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of approximately 1%. See “Results of Operations”, including segment results below for further discussion of sales.  

For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the Fort Rucker Maintenance Support contract with the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Life Cycle Management Command (AMCOM), which is included in our AM&M segment. Under this contract, which generated approximately 4% of our 2012, 2011, and 2010 sales, we provide maintenance, logistics and other related sustainment support services for rotary wing aircraft assigned to Fort Rucker and satellite units in Alabama. On July 24, 2012, we won the AMCOM contract re-competition, which includes a one-year base period through September 30, 2013, and four one-year options, with an estimated total contract value of $1.98 billion.  

Our sales trends are highly correlated to DoD budget levels because we derive approximately 71% of our annual sales from the DoD. DoD budgets are a function of several factors and uncertainties beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, U.S. military engagements, changing national security and defense requirements, geo-political developments, actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets, and the outcome of the FY 2013 CRA and the BCA sequestration cuts. Any of these factors could result in a significant increase, decrease or redirection of DoD budgets and impact L-3’s future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates. Additionally, L-3’s future results of operations will be affected by our ability to retain our existing business, including our revenue arrangements with DoD customers, and to successfully compete for new business, which largely depends on: (1) our successful performance on existing contracts, (2) the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development activities, (3) our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at an affordable cost, and (4) our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those employees who have U.S. Government security clearances.  

Segment Operating Income Trends. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our segment operating income was $1,351 million, a decrease of 6% from $1,442 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our segment operating income as a percentage of sales (segment operating margin) was 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2012, a decrease of 70 basis points from 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011. See “Results of Operations”, including segment results below for a discussion of operating margin.  

We remain focused on increasing operating margin, to the extent possible, by reducing indirect costs, improving contract performance, and increasing sales. Our 2012 operating margin declined compared to 2011,  

36  

Table of Contents 

 and we expect our 2013 operating margin will also decline as compared to 2012. While we are taking action to maintain and increase operating margin, we may not be able to do so in the future. Furthermore, select business acquisitions and select new business, including contract renewals and new contracts, could have lower operating margins than L-3’s operating margins on existing business and contracts. Changes in the competitive environment and DoD procurement practices, reductions to the DoD budget, changes in our annual pension expense and our consolidated sales levels could also result in lower operating margin.  

2012 Events  

Spin-off of Engility. On July 17, 2012, L-3 completed the spin-off of its subsidiary, Engility, to L-3’s shareholders. The spin-off was a tax-free distribution to L-3 shareholders for U.S. federal tax purposes, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares. L-3 shareholders of record on July 16, 2012 (the record date) received one share of Engility common stock for every six shares of L-3 common stock held on the record date. Engility began trading as an independent publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange on July 18, 2012.  

In connection with the spin-off, Engility made a cash distribution of $335 million to L-3. We used a portion of the proceeds to redeem $250 million of our 6 3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 (6 3/8% 2015 Notes) on July 26, 2012 and the remaining proceeds were used primarily to repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock. There was no gain or loss recognized by us as a result of the spin-off transaction.  

Prior to the completion of the spin-off, L-3 and Engility entered into a Distribution Agreement dated July 16, 2012 and several other agreements that govern certain aspects of our relationship with Engility following the spin-off. These agreements generally provide that each party is responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and obligations, including employee benefits, insurance and tax-related assets and liabilities, following the spin-off, whether accrued or contingent. The agreements also describe our future commitments to provide Engility with certain services for a period of two to eighteen months in most circumstances.  

As a result of the spin-off, the assets, liabilities, non-controlling interest, results of operations and cash flows of the Engility businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We incurred transaction expenses in connection with the spin-off of $19 million ($14 million after income taxes) for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $9 million ($7 million after income taxes) for the year ended December 31, 2011, which have been included in discontinued operations. In addition, we allocated interest expense for debt not directly attributable or related to L-3’s other operations of $14 million, $31 million, and $33 million to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Interest expense was allocated in accordance with the accounting standards for discontinued operations and was based on the ratio of Engility net assets to the sum of: (1) total L-3 consolidated net assets and (2) L-3 consolidated total debt.  

Engility’s statement of operations data, which has been classified as discontinued operations, is provided in the table below. See Note 4 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37  

Table of Contents 

2012 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility. On February 3, 2012, we amended and restated our $1 billion Revolving Credit Facility, which extended the expiration date to February 3, 2017. The terms of the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility are substantially consistent with the terms of this facility prior to its amendment and restatement except that: (1) provisions that previously limited the ability of L-3 Communications to pay dividends, repurchase L-3 Holdings’ common stock and make other distributions with respect to any capital stock were eliminated, (2) a provision that previously limited the ability of L-3 Communications to make investments in L-3 Holdings was made less restrictive and (3) the cost of borrowings, loan commitment fees and letter of credit fees were reduced. In addition, the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility provides for uncommitted incremental revolving facilities and additional term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million. See Note 10 of our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the amendment of our $1 billion Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.  

Debt Redemptions. On July 26, 2012, (the redemption date), L-3 Communications used a portion of the proceeds from the spin-off of Engility to redeem $250 million of L-3 Communications’ 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 (63/8% 2015 Notes) at a redemption price of 102.125%, plus accrued and unpaid interest, up to but not including the redemption date. In connection with the redemption of the 63/8% 2015 Notes, the Company recorded a debt retirement charge of $8 million ($5 million after income tax, or $0.05 per diluted share).  

On October 15, 2012 (the redemption date), L-3 Communications redeemed the remaining outstanding $250 million of its 63/8% 2015 Notes at a redemption price of 101.063%, plus accrued and unpaid interest, up to but not including the redemption date. In connection with the redemption, the Company recorded a debt retirement charge of approximately $5 million ($3 million after income tax, or $0.03 per diluted share).  

2011 Events  

Our 2011 results were impacted by the items discussed below, which increased net income attributable to L-3 by $28 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.26 (collectively referred to as the Q4 2011 Items):  

   •    A tax benefit of $78 million, or $0.74 of diluted earnings per share, for a net reversal of amounts previously accrued related to tax years for which the statutes of limitations expired; and  

   •    Non-cash impairment charges of $57 million ($50 million after income taxes), or $0.48 of diluted earnings per share. The impairment charges include: (1) a goodwill impairment charge of $43 million, ($42 million after income taxes, or $0.40 per diluted share), which is included in operating income and (2) $14 million, ($8 million after income taxes, or $0.08 per diluted share), which is included in interest and other income, net, for our portion of an impairment charge for long-lived assets at an equity method investment. The goodwill impairment charge was due to a decline in the estimated fair value of the Marine Services business, which is part of the Electronic Systems segment, as a result of a decline in its projected future cash flows.  

Debt Repurchases, Issuances and Redemptions. On February 2, 2011, we repurchased approximately $11 million of our CODES as a result of the exercise by the holders of their contractual right to require us to repurchase their CODES.  

On February 7, 2011, L-3 Communications issued $650 million in principal amount of 4.95% Senior Notes that mature on February 15, 2021 (2021 Senior Notes). The 2021 Senior Notes were issued at a discount of $4 million. On March 9, 2011, the net cash proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to redeem L-3 Communications’ $650 million 5 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 15, 2015 (5 7/8% 2015 Notes). In connection with the redemption of the 5 7/8% 2015 Notes, we recorded a debt retirement charge of $18 million ($11 million after income taxes, or $0.10 per diluted share).  

38  

Table of Contents 

On November 22, 2011, L-3 Communications issued $500 million in principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes that mature on November 15, 2016 (2016 Senior Notes). The 2016 Senior Notes were issued at a discount of $4 million. On December 22, 2011, the net proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to redeem $500 million of L-3 Communications’ 63/8% 2015 Notes. In connection with the redemption of the 6 3/8% 2015 Notes, we recorded a debt retirement charge of $17 million ($10 million after income tax, or $0.10 per diluted share).  

Business Acquisitions and Divestitures  

As discussed above, one aspect of our strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that add new products and technologies, or provide access to select customers, programs and contracts. We intend to continue acquiring select businesses for reasonable valuations that will provide attractive returns to L-3. Our business acquisitions, depending on their contract-type, sales mix or other factors, could reduce L-3’s consolidated operating margin while still increasing L-3’s operating income, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. In addition, we may also dispose of certain businesses if we determine that they no longer fit into L-3’s overall business strategy and we are able to receive an attractive price.  

Acquisitions. The table below summarizes the acquisitions that we have completed during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, referred to herein as business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we used net cash of $348 million primarily for business acquisitions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for the acquired business, excluding adjustments for net cash acquired and acquisition transaction costs.  

 (2)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $11 million, which is contingent upon the post acquisition financial performance of 3Di through December 31, 2012. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information on the additional purchase price for this acquisition.  

 (3)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $10 million, which is contingent upon the post acquisition financial performance of DNI through December 31, 2014. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information on the additional purchase price for this acquisition.  

 (4)   The final purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing date working capital.  

39  

Table of Contents 

All of our business acquisitions are included in our consolidated results of operations from their dates of acquisition. We regularly evaluate potential business acquisitions.  

Divestitures. On February 22, 2011, we divested Microdyne Corporation (Microdyne) and on December 17, 2010, we divested InfraredVision Technology Corporation (ITC), both of which were within the Electronic Systems segment. These divestiture transactions resulted in pre-tax losses of approximately $2 million for Microdyne and $1 million for ITC. Microdyne’s and ITC’s annual revenues (approximately $8 million and $4 million, respectively), pre-tax income and net assets were not material for any period presented, and, therefore, these divestitures are not reported as discontinued operations.  

Spin-off of Engility: On July 17, 2012, we completed the spin-off of our subsidiary, Engility Holdings, Inc. See “2012 Events” within this section for further discussion of the spin-off, distribution of proceeds and impact on our financial results and financial position.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and cost of sales during the reporting period. The most significant of these estimates and assumptions relate to contract revenue, profit and loss recognition, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, market values for inventories reported at lower of cost or market, pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, stock-based employee compensation expense, income taxes, including the valuations of deferred tax assets, litigation reserves and environmental obligations, accrued product warranty costs and the recoverability, useful lives and valuation of recorded amounts of long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Changes in estimates are reflected in the period during which they become known. Actual amounts will differ from these estimates and could differ materially. We believe that our critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make assumptions about matters that are uncertain and require judgment at the time of the estimate; (2) use of reasonably different assumptions could have changed our estimates, particularly with respect to estimates of contract revenues and costs, and recoverability of assets, and (3) changes in the estimate could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Contract Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates. Approximately 48% of our consolidated net sales are generated from contracts (revenue arrangements) that require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These revenue arrangements or contracts are generally fixed-price, cost-plus, or time-and-material type and are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors. Substantially all of our cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Certain of our contracts with the U.S. Government are multi-year contracts that are funded annually by the customer, and sales on these multi-year contracts are based on amounts appropriated (funded) by the U.S. Government. Our remaining sales are accounted for in accordance with accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers.  

Sales and profits on fixed-price type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors are substantially recognized using percentage-of-completion (POC) methods of accounting. Sales on such contracts represent approximately 39% of our consolidated net sales. Sales and profits on fixed-price production contracts under which units are produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process are recorded as units are delivered based on their contractual selling prices (the “units-of-delivery” method). Sales and profits on each fixed-price production contract under which units are not produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process, or under which a relatively few  

40  

Table of Contents 

 number of units are produced, are recorded based on the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion of the contract multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative sales recognized in prior periods (the “cost-to-cost” method). Under both POC methods of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each contract over its entire period of performance, which can exceed one year.  

Accounting for the sales on these fixed-price contracts requires the preparation of estimates of: (1) total contract revenue, (2) total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) measurement of progress towards completion. The estimated profit or loss at completion on a contract is equal to the difference between the total estimated contract revenue and the total estimated cost at completion. Under the units-of-delivery method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded as the units are delivered during the period based on their contractual selling prices. Under the cost-to-cost method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded at amounts equal to the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred divided by total estimated costs at completion, multiplied by (i) the total estimated contract revenue, less (ii) the cumulative sales recognized in prior periods. The profit recorded on a contract in any period using either the units-of-delivery method or cost-to-cost method is equal to (i) the current estimated total profit margin multiplied by the cumulative sales recognized, less (ii) the amount of cumulative profit previously recorded for the contract. In the case of a contract for which the total estimated costs exceed the total estimated revenues, a loss arises, and a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period that the loss becomes evident. The unrecoverable costs on a loss contract that are expected to be incurred in future periods are recorded as a component of other current liabilities entitled “Estimated cost in excess of estimated contract value to complete contracts in process in a loss position.”  

Adjustments to estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change, or if contract modifications occur. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage-of-completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories, and in some cases result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position. Aggregate net changes in contract estimates increased operating income by $78 million, or 6%, for the year ended December 31, 2012, $73 million, or 5%, for the year ended December 31, 2011, and $45 million, or 3%, for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

Sales and profits on cost-plus type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for government contractors are recognized as allowable costs are incurred on the contract, at an amount equal to the allowable costs plus the estimated profit on those costs. Sales on such contracts represent approximately 9% of our consolidated net sales. The estimated profit on a cost-plus contract is fixed or variable based on the contractual fee arrangement. Incentive and award fees are our primary variable fee contractual arrangement. Incentive and award fees on cost-plus type contracts are included as an element of total estimated contract revenues and recorded to sales when a basis exists for the reasonable prediction of performance in relation to established contractual targets and we are able to make reasonably dependable estimates for them. Sales and profits on time-and-material type contracts are recognized on the basis of direct labor hours expended multiplied by the contractual fixed rate per hour, plus the actual costs of material and other direct non-labor costs. On a time-and-material type contract, the fixed hourly rates include amounts for the cost of direct labor, indirect contract costs and profit. Cost-plus type or time-and-material type contracts generally contain less estimation risks than fixed-price type contracts.  

Sales on arrangements for (1) fixed-price type contracts that require us to perform services that are not related to production of tangible assets (Fixed-Price Service Contracts), and (2) certain commercial customers are recognized in accordance with accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers. Sales for our businesses whose customers are primarily commercial business enterprises are substantially generated  

41  

Table of Contents 

 from single element revenue arrangements. Sales are recognized when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or services have been performed, the selling price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that do not contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual service period, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned, or obligations fulfilled, in a different manner. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized when the units of work are completed. Sales and profit on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts within the scope of revenue recognition accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers are recognized in the same manner as those within the scope of contract accounting standards, except for incentive and award fees. Cost-based incentive fees are recognized when they are realizable in the amount that would be due under the contractual termination provisions as if the contract was terminated. Performance based incentive fees and award fees are recorded as sales when awarded by the customer.  

For contracts with multiple deliverables, we apply the separation and allocation guidance under the accounting standard for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, unless all the deliverables are covered by contract accounting standards, in which case we apply the separation and allocation guidance under contract accounting standards. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be separated into more than one unit of accounting. We recognize revenue for each unit of accounting based on the revenue recognition policies discussed above.  

Sales and profit in connection with contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government that contain collection risk because the contracts are incrementally funded and subject to the availability of funds appropriated, are deferred until the contract modification is obtained, indicating that adequate funds are available to the contract or task order.  

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets. In accordance with the accounting standards for business combinations, we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (commonly referred to as the purchase price allocation). Identifiable intangible assets are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. However, we do not recognize separate intangible assets for the assembled workforces of our business acquisitions.  

Generally, the largest separately identifiable intangible asset from the businesses that we acquire is the value of their assembled workforces, which includes the human capital of the management, administrative, marketing and business development, scientific, engineering and technical employees of the acquired businesses. The success of our businesses, including their ability to retain existing business (revenue arrangements) and to successfully compete for and win new business (revenue arrangements), is primarily dependent on the management, marketing and business development, contracting, engineering and technical skills and knowledge of our employees, rather than on productive capital (plant and equipment, and technology and intellectual property). Additionally, for a significant portion of our businesses, our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with top-secret and above clearances, is critical to our success, and is often a prerequisite for retaining existing revenue arrangements and pursuing new ones. Generally, patents, trademarks and licenses are not material for our acquired businesses. Furthermore, our U.S. Government contracts (revenue arrangements) generally permit other companies to use our patents in most domestic work performed by such other companies for the U.S. Government. Therefore, because intangible assets for assembled workforces are part of goodwill, the substantial majority of the intangible assets for our acquired business acquisitions are recognized as goodwill. Additionally, the value assigned to goodwill for our business acquisitions also includes the value that we expect to realize from cost reduction measures that we implement for our acquired businesses. Goodwill equals the amount of the purchase price of the business acquired in excess of the sum of the fair value of identifiable acquired assets, both tangible and intangible, less the fair value of liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2012, we had goodwill of $7,744 million and identifiable intangible assets of $314 million.  

42  

Table of Contents 

The most significant identifiable intangible asset that is separately recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP for our business acquisitions is customer contractual relationships. All of our customer relationships are established through written customer contracts (revenue arrangements). The fair value for customer contractual relationships is determined, as of the date of acquisition, based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the estimated future after-tax earnings and cash flows (including cash flows from working capital) arising from the follow-on sales on contract (revenue arrangement) renewals expected from customer contractual relationships over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and sales, less a contributory asset charge, all of which is discounted to present value. All identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives as the economic benefits are consumed. We review customer contractual relationships for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable in accordance with the accounting standards for long-lived assets. If any such event or change in circumstances occurs, and, if our revised estimates of future after-tax cash flows are significantly lower than our estimates at the date we acquired the customer contractual relationships, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down these intangible assets to their realizable values. We also review and update our estimates of the duration of our customer contractual relationships, at least annually. If such estimates indicate that the duration of our customer contractual relationships has decreased compared to the estimates made as of the date we acquired these intangible assets, then we accelerate the amortization period for our customer contractual relationships over their remaining useful economic lives.  

We review goodwill for impairment annually as of November 30 and, additionally on an interim basis, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The accounting standards for goodwill allow for the assessment of qualitative factors, such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions and entity relevant events or circumstances to determine whether it is more likely or not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. L-3 did not utilize a qualitative assessment approach for the November 30, 2012 goodwill impairment test, as we chose instead to complete the quantitative two-step testing process for each reporting unit.  

A reporting unit is an operating segment, as defined by the segment reporting accounting standards, or a component of an operating segment. A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and is reviewed by operating segment management. Two or more components of an operating segment may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes if the components have similar economic characteristics.  

L-3 had 15 reporting units at December 31, 2012 compared to 17 reporting units at December 31, 2011. The composition of our reporting units and associated goodwill balances changed in 2012 as compared to 2011 due to business realignments that resulted in the consolidation of two reporting units into other existing reporting units. The reporting units had fair values in excess of their carrying values at the time of the realignments and the related goodwill for each was included in the existing reporting units.  

L-3’s aggregate balance of goodwill increased by $272 million to $7,744 million at December 31, 2012 from $7,472 million at December 31, 2011 due to $250 million for business acquisitions and $22 million of foreign currency translation adjustments. The table below presents the number of reporting units and the associated goodwill at December 31, 2012 for each of our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

43  

Table of Contents 

The first step in the process of testing goodwill for potential impairment is to compare the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to measure the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value of goodwill of the reporting unit. Our methodology for determining the fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation approach, and is dependent on estimates for future sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income tax payments, working capital changes, and capital expenditures, as well as expected long-term growth rates for cash flows. All of these factors are affected by economic conditions related to the industries in which we operate (predominantly the U.S. defense industry), as well as, conditions in the U.S. capital markets.  

The more significant assumptions used in our DCF valuations to determine the fair values of our reporting units in connection with the goodwill valuation assessment at November 30, 2012 were: (1) detailed three-year cash flow projections for each of our reporting units, which are based primarily on our estimates of future sales, operating income, and cash flows, (2) the expected long-term growth rates for each of our reporting units, which approximate the expected long-term growth rate for the U.S. economy and the respective industries in which the reporting units operate, and (3) risk adjusted discount rates, which represent the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each reporting unit and include the estimated risk-free rate of return that is used to discount future cash flow projections to their present values. There were no significant changes to the underlying methods used in 2012 as compared to the prior year DCF valuations of our reporting units.  

Each reporting unit WACC was comprised of: (1) an estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly traded companies with business and economic risk characteristics comparable to each of L-3’s reporting units (Market Participants), including a risk free rate of return of 2.81% on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond as of November 30, 2012 (3.06% as of November 30, 2011) and an equity risk premium of 6% (same as 2011) and (2) an after-tax rate of return on Market Participants’ debt, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of Market Participants’ equity and debt. The WACC assumptions for each reporting unit are based on a number of market inputs that are outside of our control and are updated annually to reflect changes to such market inputs as of the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, including changes to: (1) the estimated required rate of return on equity based on historical returns on common stock securities of Market Participants and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the prior two-year period, (2) the risk free rate of return based on the prevailing market yield on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond, (3) the rate of return of Market Participants publically traded debt securities, and (4) the relative market value percentages of Market Participants’ equity and debt.  

The table below presents the weighted average risk adjusted discount rate assumptions used in our DCF valuation for each of our reportable segments for our goodwill impairment assessments at November 30, 2012.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   The weighted average risk adjusted discount rate for the Electronic Systems reportable segment is comprised of separate discount rates for each reporting unit within the segment that range from 6.56% to 7.33%.  

 (2)   Both reporting units within the C3ISR reportable segment used the risk adjusted discount rate as presented in the table above.  

As presented in the table below, L-3’s historical three-year average annual cash flow growth rates for 2012, 2011 and 2010 for our reportable segments ranged from a negative 4% to a positive 63%. The annual cash flows generated by each of our reporting units varies from year to year, and, therefore, the annual cash flow growth rates do not result in linear trends, due to a number of factors. The factors that affect the level of annual cash flows in each of our reporting units include, but are not limited to: (1) variability of annual sales volume and sales growth rates, (2) increases and decreases in working capital, including customer advance payments and billings on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) with long-term performance periods (exceeding one  

44  

Table of Contents 

 year), (3) the timing of invoicing and cash collections between fiscal years from receivables due from customers on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements), (4) the timing of increases and decreases of select inventories procured and produced in anticipation of future product sales, which frequently overlap the ending and beginning of fiscal years, (5) the timing of the receipt of award fee and incentive fee payments from customers on contracts (revenue arrangements), (6) variability in annual cash outlays for research and development costs, (7) changes in cash outlays for capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, and (8) increases in annual sales and costs and expense volumes of a reporting unit resulting from business acquisitions. As a result of the factors discussed above and the varying sizes of our reporting units, the annual cash flow levels and growth rates at the reporting unit level tend to fluctuate significantly from year to year.  

The 2012 cash flow amount and the cash flow growth rate for each of the last three years for each of our segments are presented in the following table.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Reportable segment estimated cash flow excludes interest payments on debt and other corporate cash flows.  

 (2)   The decrease in 2012 cash flows for Electronic Systems was primarily due to lower operating income compared to 2011 for Space & Propulsion and Power & Control Systems. The decrease in 2011 cash flows was primarily due to lower operating income compared to 2010 for Warrior Systems, Training & Simulation, Space & Propulsion and Microwave and liquidation of advance payments at Microwave, partially offset by lower working capital requirements at Warrior Systems. The increase in 2010 cash flow was primarily due to higher operating income compared to 2009 for Sensor Systems, Microwave, Aviation Products and Undersea Warfare, partially offset by lower operating income for force protection products and systems.  

 (3)   The decrease in 2012 cash flow for C3ISR was due to higher capital expenditures and an increase in tax payments as a result of a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by the timing of billings and cash receipts on fixed-price contracts. The increase in 2011 cash flow was due to working capital improvements, timing of billings and cash receipts on fixed-price contracts, and growth in operating income. The decrease in 2010 cash flow was due to the timing of billings and cash receipts on certain fixed-price contracts for networked communications and higher working capital requirements, partially offset by growth in sales and operating income.  

 (4)   The decrease in 2012 cash flow for AM&M was primarily due to higher working capital requirements, primarily for inventory on new contracts that began in 2012 and an increase in estimated tax payments, partially offset by higher operating income and an increase in advanced payments. The decrease in 2011 cash flow was primarily due to higher working capital, primarily for inventory on new contracts that began in 2011 and the timing of billings, partially offset by an increase in advanced payments. The increase in 2010 cash flow was primarily due to working capital reductions, primarily for the billed receivables on contracts nearing completion and the loss of the SOFSA contract, and lower capital expenditures.  

 (5)   The increase in 2012 cash flow for NSS was primarily due to the timing of billings and cash receipt and an increase in advance payments. The increase in 2011 cash flow was primarily due to working capital reductions due to lower sales volume, a decrease in tax payments and lower operating income. The decrease in 2010 cash flow was primarily due to lower margins on select contract renewals and new contracts.  

We consistently consider several factors to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units, including, historical multi-year average cash flow trends by reporting unit and the expected future cash flow growth rates for each of our reporting units primarily based on our estimates of future sales, operating income, and working capital changes. Furthermore, the substantial majority of our reporting units are primarily dependent upon the DoD budget and spending. Historically, over 70% of L-3’s annual sales have been generated from DoD customers. Accordingly, to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units we also consider: (1) the DoD budget and spending priorities, (2) expansion into new markets, (3) changing conditions in existing markets for our products, systems, and services, (4) possible termination of certain government contracts, (5) expected success in new business competitions and re-competitions on existing business, and (6) anticipated operating margins and working capital requirements, which vary significantly depending on the stage of completion (early, mature, ending) of contracts (revenue arrangements). We closely monitor changes in these factors and their impact on the expected cash flow of our reporting units.  

45  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the factors noted in the previous paragraph that were relevant and specific to each of our reporting units, our goodwill impairment assessments as of November 30, 2012 assumed a declining DoD budget through 2014 with growth of 2% beginning with fiscal year 2015, consistent with our discussion of industry considerations. However, our current estimates and assumptions may not result in the projected cash flow outcomes due to a number of factors, including:  

   •    The outcome of potential additional DoD budget reductions of approximately $490 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2021 due to BCA sequestration cuts, which become effective on March 1, 2013 unless modified by additional legislation, which could have a negative impact on the fair values of at least some of our reporting units, and potentially trigger significant goodwill impairment charges;  

   •    even if the BCA sequestration cuts are avoided, additional DoD budget reductions made as part of any broader budget deficit negotiations could have a negative impact on the fair values of at least some our reporting units, and potentially trigger significant goodwill impairments; and  

   •    resolution of the FY 2013 DoD Plan and related six-month CRA.  

Additionally, our actual cash flows may be higher than our projections and the DCF valuation does not reflect actions that we may take to increase the profitability and cash flows of our reporting units, including our six reporting units with fair value cushions of less than 20% in the second table below. Actions we may take include consolidating and streamlining select business operations, creating future synergies with other L-3 businesses, or pursuing incremental targeted growth opportunities. Additionally, the DCF valuations do not assume future business acquisitions or divestitures.  

The table below presents the estimated (1) 2013 cash flow amount, (2) average annual cash flow growth rates for 2013 – 2015, and (3) weighted average annual cash flow growth rates for 2016 and 2017 and after 2017 for each of our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Electronic Systems projected cash flow is expected to decrease by $101 million from $501 million in 2012 to $400 million in 2013. The decrease is mainly due to lower operating income and higher working capital requirements at Aviation Products and Microwave, higher capital expenditures at Simulation & Training, and liquidation of advance payments on a contract with a non-DoD customer at Precision Engagement.  

 (2)   C3ISR projected cash flow is expected to remain flat from 2012 to 2013.  

 (3)   AM&M projected cash flow is expected to decrease by $20 million from $150 million in 2012 to $130 million in 2013. The decrease is primarily due to lower expected operating income and higher capital expenditures due to IT systems and facility upgrades.  

 (4)   NSS projected cash flow is expected to decrease by $71 million from $147 million in 2012 to $76 million in 2013. The expected decrease is primarily due to 2012 working capital improvements, primarily due to the collection of billed receivables and advance payments, not expected to recur in 2013. Projected 2013 sales and operating income are also expected to decline as compared to 2012, although at a slower rate, which will contribute to a decline in 2013 cash flow.  

A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations relating to our goodwill impairment assessment, we applied hypothetical decreases to the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units. We determined that a decrease in fair value of at least 20% would be required before any reporting unit, with the exception of six reporting units presented in the table below, would have a carrying value in excess of its fair  

46  

Table of Contents 

 value. The table below presents the: (1) risk adjusted discount rates, (2) annual cash flow and three-year average growth rate, (3) 2012 cash flow, (4) goodwill balance, and (5) excess fair value percentage and dollar amount, for each of these six reporting units.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Reporting unit cash flow excludes interest payments on debt and other corporate cash flows.  

 (2)   The goodwill balance is as of November 30, 2012, our goodwill impairment testing date.  

 (3)   The excess fair value represents the percentage and dollar amount by which the fair value of a reporting unit must decline before a potential impairment is identified and would require the second step of the goodwill impairment assessment to be performed.  

 (4)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed higher projected cash flow of approximately $5 million in 2013 compared to 2012 due to planned working capital improvements and higher operating income. This will result in projected 2013 cash flow of $3 million, which would be equal to 2011 actual cash flow. In addition, our DCF valuation assumed that projected cash flows will grow approximately $2 million in 2014, remain flat to 2017 and then grow 1% annually after 2017.  

 (5)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 32% in 2013 compared to 2012 levels due to liquidations of advance payments on contracts with non-DoD customers and contracts nearing completion. In addition, our DCF valuation assumed that projected cash flow will increase $13 million in 2014 from 2013 due to expected customer advance payments on new and follow-on contracts with foreign navies. Cash flow is projected to decline to 2012 levels in 2015 due to lower demand from foreign navies and liquidations of customer advance payments. Projected cash flows are expected to remain flat in 2016 and 2017 and then grow 1% annually after 2017.  

 (6)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed lower projected cash flow of approximately 48% in 2013 compared to 2012 due to lower expected sales and operating income, as well as 2012 cash inflows that are not expected to recur, including collections of billed receivables and customer advance payments. In addition, our DCF valuation assumed that projected cash flow will remain approximately 45% below 2012 levels in 2014 and 2015 due to lower DoD budgets. Projected cash flows are expected to remain flat from 2016 to 2017 and then grow 0.5% annually after 2017.  

 (7)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed positive cash flow of $1 million in 2013 compared to 2012 levels due to expected working capital improvements and higher operating income, partially offset by capital expenditures for a production facility and liquidation of customer advance payments on a large international contract. In addition, our DCF valuation assumed cash flow would increase by approximately $20 million in 2014 and remain flat in 2015, which would be approximately the same as actual cash flow levels in 2011. This increase reflects growth in M-60 tank refurbishments for foreign militaries and a ramp up in Bradley fighting vehicle production. Projected cash flows are expected to remain flat in 2016 compared to 2015 and then grow 0.4% after 2017.  

 (8)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed higher projected cash flow of approximately 22% in 2013 compared to 2012 levels due increased sales and lower working capital needs, primarily for inventory. In addition, our DCF valuation assumed that projected cash flow will grow 19% and 33% above 2013 levels in 2014 and 2015, respectively, primarily due to increased international sales at higher margins and associated customer advance payments and higher margins on domestic programs due to improved performance. Projected cash flows are expected to remain flat in 2016 as compared to 2015 and then grow 1% annually after 2017.  

 (9)   Our DCF valuation for this reporting unit assumed higher projected cash flow of approximately 2% in 2013 compared to 2012 and remains flat in 2014 as compared to 2013. The DCF valuation assumed an increase of 26% in 2015 cash flow due to customer advance payments on new and follow-on contracts with foreign governments. Projected cash flows are expected grow 0.8% from 2016 to 2017 and then grow 1.4% annually after 2017.  

Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations. The obligations for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans and the related annual costs of employee benefits are calculated based on several long-term assumptions, including discount rates and expected mortality for employee benefit liabilities, and rates of return on plan assets, and expected annual rates for salary increases for employee participants in the case of pension plans, and expected annual increases in the costs of medical and other health care benefits in the case of postretirement benefit obligations. These long-term assumptions are subject to revision based on changes in interest rates, financial market conditions, expected versus actual returns on plan assets, expected participant mortality and other actuarial assumptions, including future rates of salary increases, benefit formulas and levels, and rates of increase in the costs of benefits. Changes in the assumptions, if significant, could materially affect the amount of annual net periodic benefit costs recognized in our results of operations from one year to the next,  

47  

Table of Contents 

 the liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, and our annual cash requirements to fund these plans. Our pension expense for 2013 is expected to increase by $3 million to $182 million from $179 million in 2012. Our discount rate assumption decreased from a weighted average rate of 5.02% in 2011 to 4.15% in 2012. The expected increase in our 2013 pension expense is primarily due to the decrease in discount rate, partially offset by decrease in salary scale assumptions. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” for a further discussion of our estimated 2013 pension expense.  

Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense in any given period. The discount rate assumptions used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were based on a hypothetical AA yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield curve is required to have a rating of AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and/or Standard & Poor’s. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curve. For a sensitivity analysis projecting the impact of a change in the discount rate on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans.”  

Valuation of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. At December 31, 2012, we had deferred tax assets of $666 million, deferred tax liabilities of $880 million and a valuation allowance of $19 million. The deferred tax assets include $20 million for loss carryforwards and $9 million for tax credit carryforwards which are subject to various limitations and will expire if unused within their respective carryforward periods. Deferred income taxes are determined separately for each of our tax-paying entities in each tax jurisdiction. The future realization of our deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Based on our estimates of the amounts and timing of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we believe that we will be able to realize our deferred tax assets, except for capital losses and certain U.S. Federal, foreign and state net operating losses. A change in the ability of our operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and, if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.  

Liabilities for Pending and Threatened Litigation. We are subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business or assumed in connection with certain business acquisitions. In accordance with the accounting standards for contingencies, we accrue a charge for a loss contingency when we believe it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the loss is within a range of specified amounts, the most likely amount is accrued, and if no amount within the range represents a better estimate we accrue the minimum amount in the range. Generally, we record the loss contingency at the amount we expect to pay to resolve the contingency and the amount is generally not discounted to the present value. Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts are recorded as assets when recovery is deemed probable. Contingencies that might result in a gain are not recognized until realizable. Changes to the amount of the estimated loss, or resolution of one or more contingencies could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our litigation matters.  

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. In addition to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with our business acquisitions, our long-lived assets also include property, plant and equipment, capitalized software development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, and certain long-term investments. As of December 31, 2012, the consolidated carrying values of our property, plant and equipment were $1,017 million, certain long-term investments were $9 million, and capitalized software development costs were $36 million. As of December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our property, plant and  

48  

Table of Contents 

 equipment represented 7% of total assets and the carrying value of our capitalized software development costs and certain long-term investments each represented less than 1% of total assets. We review the valuation of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value or net realizable value expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. We use a variety of factors to assess valuation, depending upon the asset. Long-lived assets are evaluated based upon the expected period the asset will be utilized, and other factors depending on the asset, including estimated future sales, profits and related cash flows, estimated product acceptance and product life cycles, changes in technology and customer demand, and the performance of invested companies and joint ventures. Changes in estimates and judgments on any of these factors could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

Results of Operations  

The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements. The following information has been adjusted to reflect the spin-off of Engility and related classification of assets, liabilities, non-controlling interests, results of operations and cash flows as discontinued operations. Also, our results of operations for the periods presented are affected by our business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our business acquisitions.  

Consolidated Results of Operations  

The table below provides selected financial data, excluding discontinued operations, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

49  

Table of Contents 

   (1)   The year ended December 31, 2011 includes: (1) a tax benefit of $78 million, or $0.74 of diluted earnings per share, for a net reversal of amounts previously accrued related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has expired, (2) a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $43 million ($42 million after income taxes), or $0.40 per diluted share due to a decline in the estimated fair value of our Marine Services business and (3) $14 million ($8 million after income taxes), or $0.08 per diluted share for our share of an impairment charge for long-lived assets at an equity method investment. These items are collectively referred to as the Q4 2011 Items.    

     The company believes that the Q4 2011 Items affect the comparability of the results of operations of the 2012 full year to the results of operations for the 2011 full year. The company also believes that disclosing net income and diluted EPS excluding the Q4 2011 Items will allow financial statement users to more easily compare the 2012 full year results to the 2011 full year results. Further, the goodwill impairment charge is included in consolidated operating income, but excluded from segment operating income because the charge is excluded by management for purposes of assessing segment operating performance.    

2012 Compared with 2011  

Net Sales: For the year ended December 31, 2012, consolidated net sales of $13,146 million decreased by $12 million, or 0.1%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Higher sales from the C3ISR, Electronic Systems and AM&M segments were offset by lower sales from the NSS segment. Acquired businesses, which are all included in the Electronic Systems segment, added $196 million to net sales in the year ended December 31, 2012. Net sales to commercial and foreign government end customers grew 15% to $3,120 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $2,719 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Sales from products, which primarily include products from our C3ISR and Electronic Systems segments, decreased by $17 million to $7,535 million compared to $7,552 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, representing 57% of consolidated net sales, for both years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The decrease in product sales was due to sales volume declines primarily for Power & Control Systems, Warrior Systems, network communication systems, and Precision Engagement. These decreases were partially offset by sales from the L-3 KEO and Link U.K. business acquisitions and organic sales growth primarily for: (1) Platform systems for new contracts, (2) airborne ISR systems and (3) Microwave Products.  

Sales from services, primarily from our NSS, AM&M and C3ISR segments, increased by $5 million to $5,611 million compared to $5,606 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, representing 43% of consolidated net sales, for both years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. Sales from services increased primarily due to sales growth primarily from airborne ISR logistics support and fleet management services, networked communications systems and Sensor Systems. These increases were partially offset by lower sales primarily due to: (1) less demand from the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM) information technology (IT) support services due to our previous single-award contract converting to several multiple-award contracts, (2) a decline in IT support services for select non-DoD U.S. Government agencies and (3) lower demand for intelligence support services due to the drawdown of U.S. military forces from Iraq. See the reportable segment results for additional discussion of our segment sales.  

Segment operating income and operating margin: Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by $91 million, or 6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Segment operating margin decreased by 70 basis points to 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Higher pension expense of $38 million ($24 million after income tax, or $0.25 per diluted share) reduced segment operating margin by 30 basis points. The remaining decrease in segment operating margin was primarily due to sales mix changes in the Electronic Systems and C3ISR segments and $9 million of legal fees and inventory write-downs related to security and safety equipment in the NSS segment. See segment results below for additional discussion of sales and operating margin.  

Interest expense: Interest expense declined by $20 million due to lower interest rates on outstanding fixed rate debt, partially offset by higher interest expense allocated to discontinued operations in 2011.  

Interest and other income: Interest and other income increased by $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to a 2011 fourth quarter impairment charge of $14 million for long-lived assets at an equity method investment.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Debt retirement charge: During 2012, we redeemed $500 million of our 6 3/8% 2015 Notes and recorded related debt retirement charges of $13 million. During 2011, we redeemed $650 million of our 5 7/8% 2015 Notes and $500 million of our 6 3/8% 2015 Notes and recorded related debt retirement charges of $35 million.  

Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased to 32.2% from 25.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Excluding the Q4 2011 Items, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have been 31.2%. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the expiration of the U.S. Federal research and experimentation tax credit (R&E Credit) on December 31, 2011. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was enacted on January 2, 2013, retroactively reinstated and extended the R&E Credit for all of 2012 and 2013. As a result, the 2012 impact will be recorded in the 2013 first quarter.  

Net income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations: Net income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 in the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased 9% to $782 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, and diluted EPS from continuing operations decreased to $8.01 from $8.08. Excluding the Q4 2011 Items, net income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 decreased 5% and diluted EPS increased 2%.  

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2012 declined by 8% compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 due to repurchases of L-3 common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

2011 Compared with 2010  

Net Sales: For the year ended December 31, 2011, consolidated net sales of $13,158 million decreased by $232 million, or 1.7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Lower sales primarily from the AM&M and Electronic Systems segments were partially offset by sales growth from the C3ISR segment. Acquired businesses, which are all included in the Electronics Systems segment, contributed $160 million to net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Sales from products, which primarily include products from our C3ISR and Electronic Systems segments, decreased by $28 million to $7,552 million compared to $7,580 million, representing 57% of consolidated net sales, for both years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The decrease in product sales was due to sales volume declines primarily for Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA), night vision products, combat propulsion systems, mobile satellite communication systems and simulation & training devices. These decreases were partially offset by sales from acquired businesses and organic sales growth primarily for networked communications and Sensor Systems. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our segment sales.  

Sales from services, primarily from our NSS, AM&M and C3ISR segments, decreased by $204 million to $5,606 million compared to $5,810 million, representing 43% of consolidated net sales, for both years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Sales from services decreased primarily due to the loss of the Special Operations Forces Support Activity (SOFSA) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) IT support services contracts, fewer task orders received for IT support services for the SOCOM and intelligence support services for the U.S. Army due to the drawdown of U.S. military forces from Iraq. These decreases were partially offset by increased contractor logistics support (CLS) services for U.S. Army C-12 aircraft, and increased intelligence and IT support services for U.S. Government agencies.  

Operating income and operating margin: Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $86 million, or 6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $43 million, or 2.9%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Segment operating margin decreased by 10 basis points to 11.0% for the year ended  

51  

Table of Contents 

 December 31, 2011 compared to 11.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lower operating margins in the C3ISR and Electronic Systems segments were partially offset by higher operating margins for the AM&M segment. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of operating margin.  

Interest expense: Interest expense decreased by $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to lower amortization of bond discounts and lower interest expense as a result of debt refinancings.  

Interest and other income: Interest and other income declined by $21 million primarily due to a 2011 fourth quarter impairment charge of $14 million for long-lived assets at an equity method investment.  

Debt retirement charge: During 2011, we redeemed $650 million of our 5 7/8% 2015 Notes and $500 million of our 6 3/8% 2015 Notes and recorded related debt retirement charges of $35 million. During 2010, we redeemed our 6 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 and 2014 and recorded related debt retirement charges of $18 million.  

Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased to 25.5% from 34.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the Q4 2011 Items, the effective tax rate would have decreased to 31.2% for 2011. This decrease was primarily due to: (1) $12 million for the reversal of previously accrued amounts in the second quarter of 2011, (2) additional federal tax benefits on the repatriation of foreign earnings, and (3) a 2010 tax provision of $5 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, related to the unfavorable tax treatment of the U.S. Federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that did not recur in 2011.  

Net income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations: Net income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 increased by $40 million to $855 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 and diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 15% to $8.08 from $7.04. Excluding the Q4 2011 Items of $28 million, or $0.26 per share, income from continuing operations increased $12 million to $827 million and diluted EPS increased $0.78, or 11%, to $7.82.  

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by 9.5 million shares, or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was due to repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Reportable Segment Results of Operations. The table below presents selected data by reportable segment reconciled to consolidated totals. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional reportable segment data.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Net sales are after intercompany eliminations.  

Electronic Systems  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2012 Compared with 2011  

Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by $49 million, or 1%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Sales increased: (1) $149 million for Sensor Systems primarily for the L-3 KEO acquisition, (2) $85 million for Microwave Products primarily due to increased deliveries of mobile and ground-based satellite communication systems for the U.S. military and power devices for commercial satellite communication systems, (3) $72 million for Simulation & Training of which $49 million was from the Link U.K. acquisition and $23 million was primarily due to increased deliveries of U.S. Army rotary wing training systems for the Flight School XXI program, and (4) $30 million for Marine Services  

53  

Table of Contents 

 primarily due to the landing craft air cushion vehicle service life extension program. These increases were partially offset by sales declines of: (1) $157 million for Power & Control Systems due to reduced shipments of tactical quiet generators for the U.S. Army, which reduced sales by $92 million, and by $65 million due to negative foreign currency translation of $41 million and lower demand for commercial shipbuilding, (2) $82 million for Warrior Systems due to reduced U.S Army requirements for night vision and illumination products, and (3) $48 million for Precision Engagement due to lower volume from completed contracts.  

Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by $46 million, or 6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating margin decreased by 100 basis points to 11.8%. Operating margin declined by 90 basis points primarily due to lower sales for Power & Control Systems and higher pension expense of $5 million, which reduced operating margin by 10 basis points.  

2011 Compared with 2010  

Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $133 million, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, reflecting lower sales of: (1) $376 million due to declining DoD demand for night vision products, combat propulsion systems, mobile satellite communication systems and simulation & training devices, (2) $40 million due to lower manufacturing yields for power devices for satellite communications systems, (3) $23 million primarily due to reduced demand for force protection products to foreign ministries of defense and (4) $9 million from the sale of a general aviation product technology license in the 2010 fourth quarter that did not recur in the 2011 fourth quarter. These decreases were partially offset by sales from acquired businesses of $160 million, sales volume increases of $122 million for Sensor Systems to the U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, and higher sales for commercial shipbuilding products of $33 million, with a majority of the increase from commercial shipbuilding products due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro.  

Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $75 million, or 9%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating margin decreased by 100 basis points. Unfavorable contract performance and lower sales primarily for Warrior Systems and Simulation & Training reduced operating margin by 150 basis points, lower manufacturing yields for power devices for satellite communication systems reduced operating margin by 20 basis points and a $6 million loss on a contract termination recorded in 2011 reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases in operating margin were partially offset by 80 basis points due primarily to higher sales volume for Sensor Systems.  

C3ISR  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2012 Compared with 2011  

C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by $121 million, or 3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in sales was primarily due to higher demand for airborne ISR systems for U.S. government and foreign military customers.  

C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by $31 million, or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating margin decreased by 120 basis points to 10.1%. Higher pension expense of $24 million reduced operating margin by 70 basis points and sales mix changes reduced operating margin by 50 basis points.  

54  

Table of Contents 

2011 Compared with 2010  

C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $268 million, or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase was primarily due to increased volume and new business for networked communication systems for manned and unmanned platforms, airborne ISR logistics support and fleet management services to the DoD, and international airborne ISR platforms. These increases were partially offset primarily by lower sales for airborne ISR platforms to the DoD.  

C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $29 million, or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating margin decreased by 10 basis points primarily due to lower margin sales mix for networked communication systems.  

Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2012 Compared with 2011  

AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by $44 million, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Platform systems sales increased by $130 million, which was partially offset by a sales decline of $86 million for logistic support services. The platform systems increase was due primarily to volume on new contracts, including the Australia C-27J and international head-of-state aircraft modification contracts and increased scope on the EC-130 aircraft for the U.S. Air Force (USAF). These increases were partially offset by lower JCA volume for the USAF. Logistics support services decreased due primarily to the loss of a task order for U.S. Army contract field team support services in Southwest Asia, partially offset by increased demand for field maintenance and sustainment services on a U.S. Army rotary wing aircraft contract that was competitively won in September 2011, and for U.S. Army C-12 aircraft.  

AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by $8 million, or 4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points to 9.5%. Unfavorable contract performance in 2011 primarily for JCA increased operating margin by 110 basis points. This increase was partially offset by sales mix changes, which reduced operating margin by 60 basis points, and an increase in pension expense of $9 million, which reduced operating margin by 40 basis points.  

2011 Compared with 2010  

AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $341 million, or 12%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily the result of $332 million from the SOFSA contract loss, $75 million from lower JCA volume, and $35 million due to lower sales for MHP, partially offset by increased CLS services for U.S. Army C-12 aircraft.  

AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $3 million, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating margin increased by 130 basis points. The increase in operating margin was due to: (1) improved contract performance for rotary wing cabin assemblies and special mission aircraft, which increased operating margin by 100 basis points, (2) the sales decline on the lower margin SOFSA contract, which increased operating margin by 60 basis points, and (3) a 2011 first quarter favorable price adjustment of $10 million for an international aircraft modernization contract, which increased operating margin by 40 basis points. These margin increases were partially offset by a 70 basis point decrease in operating margin primarily due to JCA for higher costs and reduced aircraft order quantities.  

55  

Table of Contents 

National Security Solutions (NSS)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

2012 Compared with 2011  

NSS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by $225 million, or 14%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Less demand for SOCOM IT support services, due to our previous single-award contract converting to several multiple-award contracts, which reduced our work share, lowered sales by $82 million. A decline in IT support services for select non-DoD U.S. Government agencies lowered sales by $93 million comprised of: (1) $38 million due to customer IT spending reductions, and (2) $55 million due to contract losses in 2011 and 2012. Sales also declined by $50 million for intelligence support services due to the drawdown of U.S. military forces in Iraq.  

NSS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by $21 million, or 21%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating margin decreased by 50 basis points to 5.7%. The decrease in operating margin was due primarily to legal fees of $5 million related to a supplier dispute, which reduced operating margin by 40 basis points, and a $4 million inventory write-down for security and safety equipment, which reduced operating margin by 30 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by reduced overhead costs, which increased operating margin by 20 basis points.  

2011 Compared with 2010  

NSS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $25 million, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in sales was due to: (1) $42 million for IT support services for SOCOM due to fewer task orders received because of more competitors on the current contract, (2) $37 million related to the loss of the FAA IT support services contract, (3) $28 million in lower intelligence support services for the U.S. Army due to the drawdown of U.S. military forces from Iraq, and (4) $26 million of lower sales related to the SBInet program for the DHS. These decreases were partially offset by $108 million in higher sales primarily due to increased demand for intelligence and IT support services for U.S. Government agencies.  

NSS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by $1 million, or 1%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating margin was unchanged. Higher business development costs for cyber security initiatives were offset by the higher margin sales mix for intelligence and IT support services and the timing of award fees.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Anticipated Sources and Uses of Cash Flow  

At December 31, 2012, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $349 million. While no amounts of the cash and cash equivalents are considered restricted, $230 million was held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. The repatriation of cash held in non-U.S. jurisdictions is subject to local capital requirements, as well as income tax considerations. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. We generated $1,231 million of cash from operating activities from continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2012. Significant cash uses during the year ended December 31, 2012 included $872 million to repurchase shares of our common stock, $348 million for business acquisitions, and $195 million for dividends.  

56  

Table of Contents 

As discussed in “2012 Events” within this section, Engility made a cash distribution of $335 million to L-3 in connection with the spin-off on July 17, 2012. We used a portion of the proceeds to redeem $250 million of our 6 3/8% 2015 Notes on July 26, 2012.  

On February 3, 2012, we amended and restated our $1 billion Revolving Credit Facility (Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility), which also extended the expiration date to February 3, 2017. As of December 31, 2012, we had the availability of substantially all of our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility. We currently believe that our cash from operating activities together with our cash on hand, and available borrowings under our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, defined benefit plan contributions, commitments, contingencies, research and development expenditures, business acquisitions (depending on the size), contingent purchase price payments on previous business acquisitions, program and other discretionary investments, interest payments, income tax payments, L-3 Holdings’ dividends and share repurchases.  

Our business may not continue to generate cash flow at current levels, and it is possible that currently anticipated improvements may not be achieved. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce dividend payments, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments or to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the U.S. defense industry and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.  

For a discussion of our debt refinancing activities during 2012, which improved our debt maturity profile and reduced ongoing interest expense, see “Financing Activities – Continuing Operations – Debt.”  

Balance Sheet  

Billed receivables decreased by $125 million to $968 million at December 31, 2012 from $1,093 million at December 31, 2011 due to: (1) the timing of billings and collections primarily for airborne ISR logistic services and AM&M, and (2) lower organic sales primarily for Sensor Systems, NSS and Warrior Systems. These decreases were partially offset by $37 million from business acquisitions and $5 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.  

Contracts in process increased by $266 million to $2,652 million at December 31, 2012 from $2,386 million at December 31, 2011 The increase included: (1) $84 million of acquired contracts from business acquisitions, (2) $11 million from inventory received as part of the dissolution of an equity method investment, (3) $6 million of foreign currency translation adjustments and (4) $165 million from:  

   •    Increases of $39 million in unbilled contract receivables primarily due to liquidation of progress payments for delivery of Simulation & Training devices and sales exceeding billings for Sensor Systems and Networked Communications, partially offset by a decrease for NSS due to lower sales and billings; and  

   •    Increases of $126 million in inventoried contract costs primarily due to Australian C-27J aircraft and a related training device for AM&M and spare parts for logistics support services.  

L-3’s receivables days sales outstanding (DSO) was 71 at December 31, 2012, compared with 73 at December 31, 2011. We calculate our DSO by dividing: (1) our aggregate end of period billed receivables and net unbilled contract receivables, by (2) our trailing 12 month sales adjusted, on a pro forma basis, to include sales from business acquisitions and exclude sales from business divestitures that we completed as of the end of the period, multiplied by the number of calendar days in the trailing 12 month period (366 days at December 31, 2012 and 365 days at December 31, 2011). Our trailing 12 month pro forma sales were $13,240 million at December 31, 2012 and $13,169 million at December 31, 2011.  

57  

Table of Contents 

The increase in inventories was primarily due to higher inventory for Microwave Products and Security & Detection Systems to support customer demand.  

The decrease in current deferred income tax assets was primarily due to the difference in the recognition of income for contracts in process for purposes of income taxes as compared to financial reporting. The decrease in other current assets was primarily due to applying expected tax refunds, primarily for U.S. federal and state income taxes, to current year estimated tax payments.  

The increase in net property, plant and equipment (PP&E) was principally due to capital expenditures, partially offset by depreciation expense.  

Goodwill increased by $272 million to $7,744 million at December 31, 2012 from $7,472 million at December 31, 2011. The table below presents the changes in goodwill by segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   The increase in goodwill for the Electronic Systems segment is due to the L-3 KEO, MAVCO and Link U.K. business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding these acquisitions.  

 (2)   The changes in goodwill from foreign currency translation adjustments are due to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currency exchange rates. The increases in goodwill presented in the Electronic Systems, AM&M and NSS segments during 2012 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, Canadian dollar and the British Pound.  

The increase in identifiable intangible assets was primarily due to the recognition of $53 million of customer contractual relationships and technology intangibles due primarily to the L-3 KEO and Link U.K business acquisitions, partially offset by amortization expense. The decrease in other assets was primarily due to the dissolution of an equity method investment.  

The fluctuation in accounts payable and accrued expenses were primarily due to the timing of when invoices for purchases from third-party vendors and subcontractors were received and payments were made. Business acquisitions increased accounts payable by $18 million and accrued expenses by $5 million.  

The decrease in accrued employment costs was primarily due to a reduction in accrued payroll taxes due to headcount reductions and the timing of payments, partially offset by $7 million of acquired balances from theL-3 KEO business acquisition.  

The increase in advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred was primarily due to cash collections on performance based billings related to contracts with foreign customers for platform systems and milestone payments for Networked Communications and $60 million from business acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by primary liquidations on contracts for Undersea Warfare and space and propulsion, and lower advanced payments on new contracts for Sensor Systems.  

Pension Plans  

L-3 maintains defined benefit pension plans covering employees at certain of its businesses and approximately 25% of its employees. At December 31, 2012, L-3’s projected benefit obligation, which includes accumulated benefits plus the incremental benefits attributable to projected future salary increases for covered employees, was $3,222 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $2,026 million by $1,196 million. At December 31, 2011, L-3’s projected benefit obligation was $2,679 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,712 million by $967 million. The $229 million increase in our unfunded status was  

58  

Table of Contents 

 primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate from 5.02% at December 31, 2011 to 4.15% at December 31, 2012 and 2012 pension expense, partially offset by our 2012 actual pension plan asset return of approximately 13.0%, which was higher than our weighted average expected long-term rate of return assumption of 8.15%, and 2012 employer pension contributions.  

We recorded net actuarial losses of $286 million in the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate as noted above, which is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Actuarial gains and losses that our pension plans experience are not recognized in pension expense in the year incurred, but rather are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and amortized to pension expense in future periods over the estimated average remaining service periods of the covered employees. See Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Our pension expense for 2012 was $179 million. We currently expect pension expense for 2013 to increase $3 million to approximately $182 million primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate as noted above, partially offset by: (1) expected asset returns on higher plan assets following our 2012 contributions and actual returns and (2) the decrease in the weighted average salary scale assumptions from 4.06% at December 31, 2011 to 3.56% at December 31, 2012.  

Our pension expense for 2013 may be different from our current expectations when finalized due to a number of factors, including the effect of any future business acquisitions for which we assume liabilities for pension benefits, changes in headcount at our businesses that sponsor pension plans, actual pension plan contributions and changes (if any) to our pension assumptions for 2013, including the discount rate, expected long-term return on plan assets and salary increases.  

Our contributions for 2012 were $173 million and we currently expect to contribute approximately $165 million to our pension plans in 2013, including $95 million of voluntary contributions. Actual 2013 pension contributions could be affected by changes in the funded status of our pension plans during 2012. A substantial portion of our pension plan contributions for L-3’s businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are recoverable as allowable indirect contract costs at amounts generally equal to the annual pension contributions.  

Our projected benefit obligation and annual pension expense are significantly affected by our discount rate assumption. For example, a reduction to the discount rate of 25 basis points would increase our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2012 by approximately $124 million and our estimated pension expense for 2013 by approximately $15 million. Conversely, an increase to the discount rate of 25 basis points would have decreased our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2012 by approximately $117 million, and our estimated pension expense for 2013 by approximately $14 million.  

Statement of Cash Flows  

The table below provides a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods indicated.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities — Continuing Operations  

2012 Compared with 2011. We generated $1,231 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2012, which was unchanged when compared with $1,231 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating cash flow increased $116 million due to more cash generated from changes  

59  

Table of Contents 

 in operating assets and liabilities primarily for collections of billed receivables and advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred, partially offset by higher tax payments. This increase was offset by $76 million of lower net income and $40 million of lower non-cash expenses primarily for a 2011 non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $43 million that did not recur in 2012.  

2011 Compared with 2010. We generated $1,231 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of $39 million compared with $1,270 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was due to $147 million of more cash used for changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily for advanced payments and billings in excess of costs incurred and accrued income taxes, partially offset by lower tax payments. This decrease was partially offset by $68 million of higher non cash expenses, primarily due to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $43 million and higher deferred income taxes, and higher income from continuing operations of $40 million. The net cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities is further discussed above under “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Balance Sheet.”  

Interest Payments. Our cash from operating activities included interest payments on debt of $198 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, $238 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and $233 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our interest expense also included amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and bond discounts, which are non-cash items.  

Investing Activities — Continuing Operations  

During 2012, we used $200 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire three businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” and (2) pay $210 million for capital expenditures. These cash out flows were partially offset by $335 million of cash received from the spin-off of Engility and $20 million of cash received from the dissolution of an unconsolidated joint venture.  

During 2011, we used $199 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire two businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” and (2) pay $187 million for capital expenditures.  

During 2010, we used $944 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire four businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures”, (2) pay $178 million for capital expenditures, and (3) invest $23 million in an unconsolidated subsidiary accounted for using the equity method.  

Financing Activities — Continuing Operations  

Debt  

At December 31, 2012, total outstanding debt was $3,629 million, comprised of $2,940 million of senior debt and $689 million of CODES, compared to $4,125 million at December 31, 2011, of which $2,938 million was senior debt and $1,187 million was subordinated debt and CODES. At December 31, 2012, we had the availability of substantially all of our $1 billion Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility. We also had $504 million of other standby letters of credit at December 31, 2012, that may have been drawn upon in the event that we did not perform on certain of our contractual requirements. There were no borrowings outstanding under our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, our outstanding debt matures between November 15, 2016 and August 1, 2035. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the components of our debt at December 31, 2012.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Debt Issuances  

The terms of each of the outstanding Senior Notes issued by L-3 Communications during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented in the table below. There were no debt issuances during the year ended December 31, 2012.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Debt Repayments  

In connection with the spin-off, Engility made a cash distribution of $335 million to L-3. L-3 Communications used a portion of the proceeds to redeem $250 million of the 6 3/8% 2015 Notes on July 26, 2012. Also, on October 15, 2012, L-3 Communications redeemed the remaining outstanding $250 million of its 6 3/8% 2015 Notes. Information on the Senior Subordinated Notes we redeemed during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

On February 2, 2011, we repurchased approximately $11 million of our CODES as a result of the exercise by the holders of their contractual right to require us to repurchase their CODES. The CODES are subject to redemption at the option of L-3 Holdings, in whole or in part, at a cash redemption price (plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional interest, if any) equal to 100% of the principal amount of CODES. We may, from time to time, make open market purchases of our outstanding debt securities, including the CODES. Whether or not we repurchase any of our outstanding debt securities, including the CODES, the amount of any such repurchases will vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, the trading price of our debt, other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of our cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, and general economic conditions.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Debt Covenants and Other Provisions. The Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes contain financial and/or other restrictive covenants. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our debt and related financial covenants, including dividend payment and share repurchase restrictions and cross default provisions. We were in compliance with our financial and other restrictive covenants at December 31, 2012 and 2011.  

Under select conditions, including if L-3 Holding’s common stock price is more than 120% (currently $109.45) of the then current conversion price (currently $91.21) for a specified period, the conversion feature of the CODES will require L-3 Holdings, upon conversion, to pay the holders of the CODES the principal amount in cash, and if the settlement amount exceeds the principal amount, the excess will be settled in cash or stock or a combination thereof, at our option. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the CODES, including conditions for conversion. L-3 Holdings’ closing stock price of February 21, 2013 was $76.46 per share.  

Guarantees. The borrowings under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L-3 Holdings and by substantially all of the material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of L-3 Communications on an unsecured senior basis. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications’ material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other indebtedness. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the CODES are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other liabilities.  

Prior to the spin-off of Engility, which was completed on July 17, 2012, Engility Holdings, Inc., Engility Corporation, International Resources Group Ltd. and LinCom Wireless, Inc. were guarantor subsidiaries. As a result of the spin-off, these entities no longer guarantee the debt of L-3 Communications or L-3 Holdings.  

Subordination. The guarantees of the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Notes rank senior to the guarantees of the CODES and rank pari passu with each other. The guarantees of the CODES are junior to the guarantees of the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes.  

Equity  

During 2012 and 2011, L-3 Holdings’ Board of Directors authorized the following quarterly cash dividends:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In addition to the dividends paid as shown in the table above, the Company also paid $3 million of previously accrued dividends related to the vested employee stock-based awards in 2012.  

62  

Table of Contents 

On February 5, 2013, L-3 Holdings announced that its Board of Directors had increased L-3 Holdings’ regular quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $0.55 per share, payable on March 15, 2013, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2013.  

On February 15, 2013, the number of holders of L-3 Holdings’ common stock was approximately 31,635. On February 21, 2013, the closing price of L-3 Holdings common stock, as reported by the NYSE, was $76.46 per share.  

For the year ended December 31, 2012, L-3 Holdings repurchased $872 million, or 12.1 million shares, of its common stock compared to $958 million, or 13.3 million shares, of its common stock for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Contractual Obligations  

The table below presents our estimated total contractual obligations from our continuing operations at December 31, 2012, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Represents principal amount of long-term debt and only includes scheduled principal payments.  

 (2)   The CODES are convertible into cash and shares of L-3 Holdings’ common stock based on a conversion rate of 10.9640 shares of L-3 Holdings common stock per one thousand dollars in principal amount of the CODES (equivalent to a current conversion price of $91.21 per share). The conversion feature of the CODES may require L-3 Holdings to settle the principal amount with the holders of the CODES if L-3 Holdings common stock price is more than 120% of the then current conversion price (currently $109.45) for a specified period, and if the settlement amount exceeds the principal amount, the excess will be settled in cash or stock or a combination thereof, at our option. Additionally, holders of the CODES may require L-3 Holdings to repurchase the CODES, in whole or in part, on February 1, 2016, February 1, 2021, February 1, 2026 and February 1, 2031 at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the CODES (plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any). See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the CODES, including conditions for conversion and contingent interest features. L-3 Holdings stock price on February 21, 2013 was $76.46.  

 (3)   Represents expected interest payments on L-3’s long-term debt balance as of December 31, 2012 using the stated interest rate on our fixed rate debt, assuming that current borrowings remain outstanding to the contractual maturity date.  

 (4)   Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of estimated sublease rental income.  

 (5)   Represents the residual value guarantee for two real estate lease agreements, expiring on August 31, 2015, that are accounted for as operating leases. We have the right to exercise options under the lease agreements to renew the leases, to purchase both properties for $28 million or sell both properties on behalf of the lessor. If we elect to sell the properties, we must pay the lessor a residual value guarantee of $23 million. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a further description of these leases.  

 (6)   Represents open purchase orders at December 31, 2012 for amounts expected to be paid for goods or services that are legally binding.  

 (7)   Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of workers compensation and deferred compensation for the years ending December 31, 2014 and thereafter and also include pension and postretirement benefit plan contributions that we expect to pay in 2013.  

 (8)   Our pension and postretirement benefit plan funding policy is generally to contribute in accordance with cost accounting standards that affect government contractors, subject to the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereon. For 2013, we expect to contribute approximately $165 million to our pension plans and approximately $11 million to our postretirement benefit plans. Due to the current uncertainty of the amounts used to compute our expected pension and postretirement benefit plan funding, we believe it is not practicable to reasonably estimate such future funding for periods in excess of one year and we may decide or be required to contribute more than we expect to our pension and postretirement plans.  

63  

Table of Contents 

 (9)   Excludes all income tax obligations, a portion of which represents unrecognized tax benefits in connection with uncertain tax positions taken, or expected to be taken on our income tax returns as of December 31, 2012 since we cannot determine the time period of future tax consequences. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The table below presents our estimated total contingent commitments and other guarantees at December 31, 2012, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Represents outstanding letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers. These letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event of L-3’s nonperformance.  

 (2)   Represents the minimum guarantees made by L-3 or the lessee under the purchase option for certain operating leases in which the lease renewal is not exercised (see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of these guarantees).  

 (3)   Represents potential additional contingent purchase payments for business acquisitions that are contingent upon the post-acquisition financial performance or certain other performance conditions of the acquired businesses in accordance with the contractual purchase agreement. At December 31, 2012, our consolidated balance sheet includes $9 million within the other liabilities caption for the fair value of these contingent purchase payments.  

 (4)   The total amount does not include residual value guarantees for two real estate lease agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. We have the right to exercise options under the lease agreements to purchase both properties for $28 million on or before August 31, 2015. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a further description of these leases.  

Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  

We are engaged in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government and, to a lesser degree, under foreign government contracts, some of which are funded by the U.S. Government. All such contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and, periodically, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in the suspension for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. A conviction, or an administrative finding that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, none of which we anticipate will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

We continually assess our obligations with respect to applicable environmental protection laws. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost that we will incur to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that even without considering potential insurance recoveries, if any, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, we have been periodically subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business. We accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For a description of our legal proceedings and contingencies, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Derivative Financial Instruments and Other Market Risk  

Included in our derivative financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts. All of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to market risk are entered into for purposes other than trading.  

Interest Rate Risk. Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility is subject to variable interest and is therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. The interest rates on the Senior Notes and CODES are fixed-rate and are not affected by changes in interest rates. Additional data on our debt obligations and our applicable borrowing spreads included in the interest rates we would pay on borrowings under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, if any, are provided in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. To protect the functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with certain of these contracts, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are generally designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2012, the notional value of foreign currency forward contracts was $221 million and the net fair value of these contracts was an asset of $5 million. The notional values of our foreign currency forward contracts with maturities ranging through 2017 and thereafter are presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented  

For a discussion of accounting standards issued and not yet implemented, see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Inflation  

The effect of inflation on our sales and earnings has not been significant. Although a majority of our sales are made under long-term contracts (revenue arrangements), the selling prices of such contracts, established for deliveries in the future, generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in these future periods. In addition, some of our contracts provide for price adjustments through cost escalation clauses.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

Certain of the matters discussed concerning our operations, cash flows, financial position, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business and the realization of sales from backlog, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  

Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, including projections of total sales growth, sales growth from business acquisitions, organic sales growth, consolidated operating margins, total segment operating margins, interest expense, earnings, cash flow, research and development costs, working capital, capital expenditures and other projections, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties, and therefore, it is possible that these statements may not be achieved. Such statements will also be influenced by factors which include, among other things:  

   •    our dependence on the defense industry and the business risks peculiar to that industry, including changing priorities or reductions in annual DoD budgets and the outcome of potential additional reductions due to the sequestration process;  

65  

Table of Contents 

   •    backlog processing and program slips resulting from delayed funding of the DoD budget;  

   •    our reliance on contracts with a limited number of agencies of, or contractors to, the U.S. Government and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform;  

   •    the extensive legal and regulatory requirements surrounding our contracts with the U.S. or foreign governments and the results of any investigation of our contracts undertaken by the U.S. or foreign governments, including potential suspensions or debarments;  

   •    our ability to retain our existing business and related contracts (revenue arrangements);  

   •    our ability to successfully compete for and win new business and related contracts (revenue arrangements) and to win re-competitions of our existing contracts;  

   •    our ability to identify and acquire additional businesses in the future with terms, including the purchase price, that are attractive to L-3 and to integrate acquired business operations;  

   •    our ability to maintain and improve our consolidated operating margin and total segment operating margin in future periods;  

   •    our ability to obtain future government contracts (revenue arrangements) on a timely basis;  

   •    the availability of government funding and changes in customer requirements for our products and services;  

   •    our significant amount of debt and the restrictions contained in our debt agreements;  

   •    our ability to continue to retain and train our existing employees and to recruit and hire new qualified and skilled employees, as well as our ability to retain and hire employees with U.S. Government security clearances that are a prerequisite to compete for and to perform work on classified contracts for the U.S. Government;  

   •    actual future interest rates, volatility and other assumptions used in the determination of pension benefits and equity-based compensation, as well as the market performance of benefit plan assets;  

   •    our collective bargaining agreements, our ability to successfully negotiate contracts with labor unions and our ability to favorably resolve labor disputes should they arise;  

   •    the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate, including those for the commercial aviation, shipbuilding and communications markets;  

   •    global economic uncertainty;  

   •    the DoD’s wide-ranging efficiency and better buying power initiatives;  

   •    events beyond our control such as acts of terrorism;  

   •    our ability to perform contracts (revenue arrangements) on schedule;  

   •    our international operations, including sales to foreign customers;  

   •    our extensive use of fixed-price type contracts as compared to cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts;  

66  

Table of Contents 

   •    the rapid change of technology and high level of competition in the defense industry and the commercial industries in which our businesses participate;  

   •    our introduction of new products into commercial markets or our investments in civil and commercial products or companies;  

   •    the outcome of litigation matters, particularly in connection with jury trials;  

   •    results of audits by U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, of our sell prices, costs and performance on contracts (revenue arrangements), and our accounting and general business practices;  

   •    the impact on our business of improper conduct by our employees, agents, or business partners;  

   •    anticipated cost savings from business acquisitions not fully realized or realized within the expected time frame;  

   •    the outcome of matters relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar non-U.S. regulations;  

   •    ultimate resolution of contingent matters, claims and investigations relating to acquired businesses, and the impact on the final purchase price allocations;  

   •    significant increase in competitive pressure among companies in our industry; and  

   •    the fair values of our assets, including identifiable intangible assets and the estimated fair value of the goodwill balances for our reporting units, which can be impaired or reduced by other factors, some of which are discussed above.  

In addition, for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” and Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements, in each case included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

Readers of this document are cautioned that our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.  

As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this filing to reflect events or changes in circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk