Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Any of these risks could materially affect our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could in turn materially affect the price of our common stock.  

Our contracts (revenue arrangements) with U.S. Government customers entail certain risks.  

A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

Our government contracts and sales are highly correlated and dependent upon the U.S. defense budget which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. DoD budgets are a function of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geopolitical developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future DoD budgets and impact our future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates.  

In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). The BCA imposed spending caps and discretionary spending cuts of approximately $487 billion to DoD base budgets for FY 2012 to FY 2021, compared to previously proposed DoD base budgets. The BCA also triggered an automatic sequestration process, which was originally scheduled to become effective on January 2, 2013, that imposes additional budget cuts to U.S. national security accounts of approximately $490 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2021 and other U.S. Government budget cuts of another $500 billion to discretionary non-national security accounts. The national security spending cuts from sequestration are expected to mostly reduce DoD budgets by equally cutting funding for all DoD budget line items. The American Taxpayer Relief Act, enacted on January 2, 2013, delayed the implementation of the BCA sequestration cuts to March 1, 2013, reduced the sequester cut to the FY 2013 DoD  

19  

Table of Contents 

 budget to approximately $46 billion and increased the sequester cut for FY 2014 to approximately $59 billion. If the sequestration cuts to the DoD budget occur, we expect that they will negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows, and could potentially trigger goodwill impairment charges.  

On February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration (“Administration”) submitted its FY 2013 proposed budget (FY 2013 DoD Plan) to Congress which complies with the first phase of the BCA imposed spending cuts, but does not address the BCA sequestration cuts. The FY 2013 DoD Plan reduced DoD base budgets by $259 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2017, compared to the previously proposed budgets. Congress has not yet authorized or appropriated a FY 2013 DoD budget. Instead, Congress enacted a six-month Continuing Resolution Authority which funds the DoD until March 27, 2013, at levels similar to the DoD FY12 budget, however, the ultimate DoD FY 2013 budget must comply with the BCA sequestration provisions.  

The Administration’s proposed DoD FY 2014 budget or plan, which was scheduled for release in February 2013, has been delayed to March 2013 or later, due to the ongoing debate between the Administration and Congress about U.S Federal government deficit reduction, including spending and revenues, debt levels and the BCA sequestration cuts.  

The declining DoD budgets will reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements and generally will have a negative impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the in-process withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014 is expected to continue to negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows related to supporting U.S. military operations in Afghanistan.  

In addition, if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised by May 19, 2013, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S Government contracts even if the U.S Government is unable to make timely payments. Furthermore, such limits could also potentially delay program/contract start dates in an effort to curb obligations until all debt negotiations are complete or the U.S Government may issue a stop work order and later order the work to resume or may terminate the contract altogether. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

We rely predominantly on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss or delay of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government. The loss or delay of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 76%, or $10.0 billion, of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 were made directly or indirectly to U.S. Government agencies, including 71% to the DoD. Aggregate sales for our five largest contracts (revenue arrangements) amounted to approximately $1.7 billion, or 13% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the Fort Rucker Maintenance Support contract with the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Life Cycle Management Command (AMCOM), which is included in our AM&M segment. Under this contract, which generated approximately 4% of our 2012 sales, we provide maintenance, logistics, and other related sustainment support services for rotary wing aircraft assigned to Fort Rucker and satellite units in Alabama. On July 24, 2012, we won the AMCOM contract re-competition, which includes a one-year base period through September 30, 2013, and four one-year options, with an estimated total contract value of $1.98 billion.  

A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD. Although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results may be adversely affected by:  

   •    curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology or other services and product providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters;  

20  

Table of Contents 

   •    developments in Afghanistan or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services;  

   •    our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing demand for our services; and  

   •    technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position.  

The DoD’s wide-ranging efficiency and better buying power initiatives, which target affordability and cost growth, could have a material effect on the procurement process and may adversely affect our existing contracts and the award of new contracts.  

The DoD has issued guidance regarding changes to the procurement process that is intended to control cost growth throughout the acquisition cycle by developing a competitive strategy for each program. As a result, the Company expects to engage in more frequent negotiations and re-competitions on a cost or price analysis basis with every competitive bid in which it participates. This initiative is organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. Because this initiative significantly changes the way the U.S. Government solicits, negotiates and manages its contracts, this initiative could result in a reduction in expenditures for the type of products we manufacture for, and services we provide to, the U.S. Government and could have a material negative impact on our future sales, earnings and cash flows.  

In addition, the FY 2013 DoD Plan seeks reductions in contractor support services and consolidation of enterprise IT systems as part of an effort to achieve another $60 billion of efficiency savings over the five fiscal years FY 2013 through FY 2017. This initiative will primarily affect our businesses within the National Security Solutions reportable segment and could result in the loss of certain of our existing contracts (revenue arrangements) depending on how the DoD implements this initiative.  

Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally:  

   •    suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations;  

   •    terminate existing contracts;  

   •    reduce the value of existing contracts; and  

   •    audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs.  

All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.  

U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract  

21  

Table of Contents 

 related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including certain business acquisition costs, most financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. Government contracts.  

We currently have a backlog of funded orders, primarily under contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded backlog was $10,884 million at December 31, 2012. As described above, the U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us. Accordingly, most of our backlog could be modified or terminated by the U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our future sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or receive required licenses to export our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  

Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following:  

   •    the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;  

   •    the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us;  

   •    design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and  

   •    the constant need for design improvement.  

In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are not permitted to export some of our products and are also required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies to export many of our products and systems. Failure to receive required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our products and systems outside the United States.  

Intense competition and bid protests may adversely effect our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

The defense and commercial industries in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will continue to encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect increased competition for our products and services from other providers due to the uncertainty of future U.S. defense budgets. Furthermore, the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have more financial and other resources than we have. For more information concerning the factors that affect our ability to compete, see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Competition.”  

We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and from time to time agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, including those discussed in Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements. Under U.S. Government regulations, an indictment of the Company by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to  

22  

Table of Contents 

 our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. A conviction, or an administrative finding against us that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specific term.  

We are subject to the risks of current and future legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal proceedings and litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments that have been asserted against acquired businesses, which we have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation. Desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. In addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation can be difficult to predict, including those involving jury trials. Accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation matter may turn out to be wrong. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. For a discussion of material litigation to which we are currently a party, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

If we are unable to keep pace with rapidly evolving products and service offerings and technological change, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the markets in which our products, services and systems oriented businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through certain business acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development or successfully complete such acquisitions. In the past, we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the necessary financial resources to develop new products and systems in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and systems obsolete or non-competitive.  

Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may not successfully implement our strategy.  

We opportunistically seek to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities and add new technologies, products, services, programs, contracts, and customers to our existing businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional business acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including sales growth, cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for business acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted or limited by the terms of our debt agreements or due to unfavorable capital market conditions.  

The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding debt, as well as more restrictive covenants.  

23  

Table of Contents 

We consider and may enter into strategic business acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and joint venture transactions and have not entered into any agreements with respect to any material transactions at this time. Furthermore, in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all claims against and liabilities of the acquired business, including both asserted and unasserted claims and liabilities.  

Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet and may become impaired.  

Goodwill represents the largest asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $7,744 million at December 31, 2012. We review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill annually in accordance with the accounting standards for goodwill and intangible assets. The annual impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units in comparison to their carrying values. A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. The fair value of six of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the net assets of those reporting units by less than 20% at November 30, 2012, the date of our annual impairment assessment. The estimated fair values of our reporting units will be negatively impacted by reductions in the DoD budget that impact our programs, including the automatic sequestration process, should it occur. A decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units could potentially trigger goodwill impairment charges and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” for further discussion.  

Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts.  

Our sales are transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally fixed-price, cost-plus or time-and-material. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” The table below presents the percentage of our total sales generated from each contract-type.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Substantially all of our cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements, and are included in our fixed-price type contract sales.  

On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract.  

On a cost-plus type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead,  

24  

Table of Contents 

 allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. Therefore, on cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts.  

Additionally, the impact of revisions in profit or loss estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage of completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories; and in some cases, result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

Our significant level of debt and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.  

At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $3,639 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt. On February 3, 2012, we amended and restated our $1 billion Revolving Credit Facility (Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility), which also extended the expiration date to February 3, 2017. In addition, at December 31, 2012 we had the availability of substantially all of our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility. In the future, we may increase our borrowings, subject to any limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. The first scheduled maturity of our existing debt is our $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.95% Senior Notes maturing November 15, 2016. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt” and Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt depends on our future financial performance as well as our ability to access the capital markets, and the relative attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have complete control over our future financial performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial (including credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that in the future our businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include:  

   •    requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments;  

   •    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy;  

   •    increasing interest expense due to higher interest rates on our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility as it has a variable interest rate;  

   •    heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and  

   •    impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Additionally, on December 31, 2012, we had $8,810 million of contractual obligations (including outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the components of our contractual obligations, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations.”  

Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes restrict our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated.  

Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes contain certain significant covenants that, among other things, include, depending on the debt instrument, restrictions on our ability to:  

   •    sell assets;  

   •    incur more indebtedness;  

   •    create liens;  

   •    make certain investments or business acquisitions;  

   •    engage in business mergers or consolidations; and  

   •    engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.  

These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility also requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including (1) total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to total consolidated cash interest expense, (2) total consolidated funded indebtedness less designated cash balances to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and (3) consolidated senior indebtedness less designated cash balances to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable.  

For further discussion of our financial ratios, debt agreements and other payment restrictions, see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively.  

Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects.  

Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability.  

Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations.  

26  

Table of Contents 

New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

Our sales to certain foreign customers expose us to risks associated with operating internationally.  

For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales to foreign customers, excluding our foreign sales made under FMS agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied foreign governments, represented approximately 15% of our consolidated sales. Consequently, our businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:  

   •    export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports;  

   •    compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. regulations;  

   •    the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations;  

   •    contract award and funding delays;  

   •    potential restrictions on transfers of funds;  

   •    currency fluctuations;  

   •    import and export duties and value added taxes;  

   •    transportation delays and interruptions;  

   •    uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and  

   •    potential military conflicts and political risks.  

While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate.  

Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions.  

As a U.S. defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions in mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information and corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our products and services.  

The Company’s spin-off of Engility could result in substantial tax liability to the Company and its shareholders.  

We received an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Ruling stating that L-3 and its shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off of Engility. In addition, we received an opinion of counsel that the spin-off satisfies certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the IRS Ruling; however, an opinion of counsel is not binding on the  

27  

Table of Contents 

 IRS. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion of counsel. Moreover, both the IRS Ruling and the opinion of counsel are based on certain factual statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could invalidate the IRS Ruling or opinion of counsel.  

If, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS Ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, then we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of Engility would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Engility received.  

Pension expense and funding may fluctuate significantly because of changes in key estimates and assumptions, including discount rates and assumed long-term rate of return on assets, as well as our actual investment returns and regulatory actions, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

Determining our pension expense requires significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rates, assumed long-term rate of return on assets and other actuarial assumptions. If our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, demographic experience and/or circumstances, our pension expense, the funded status of our plans and our cash contributions to such plans would be impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our assumed long-term rate of return on assets could also impact our pension expense, the funded status of our plans and our required cash contributions to the plans. Further, our pension expense and the funded status of our plans, including required cash contributions to the Plans, may be impacted by regulatory actions in any given year.  

Additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), for our government contracts occur in different periods from when pension expense is recognized under Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) for financial statement purposes or when cash contributions are made. These timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. In December 2011, cost accounting standards were revised in order to harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to U.S. Government contracts with the minimum required contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006. We anticipate the revised CAS will better align, but not eliminate, mismatches between ERISA funding requirements and pension plan cost recoveries under CAS.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

Item 2. Properties