Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Market Risk  

The Company is exposed to market risk consisting of foreign currency rate fluctuations and changes in interest rates.  

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in its operating statement due to transactions denominated primarily in Canadian Dollars, British Pounds and Euros. Although historically the Company has elected not to enter into any hedging contracts, it continually evaluates its foreign currency exchange rate risk and the different mechanisms for use in managing such risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Company’s most significant foreign currency exposures would have had an impact of approximately $27 million on fiscal 2009 net sales. This amount is not indicative of the hypothetical net earnings impact due to the partially offsetting impact of the currency exchange movements on cost of sales and operating expenses.  

The Company’s earnings are also affected by fluctuations in short-term interest rates through the investment of its cash balances, borrowings under LIBOR-based debt instruments and the practice of selling fixed rate equipment finance contracts under agreements with both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks that provide for pricing based on variable interest rates.  

As of April 25, 2009, the Company had a $75 million variable-rate term note outstanding and $22 million drawn on a variable-rate revolving credit facility. The Company views its variable interest rate debt position on a net basis that gives effect to the Company’s cash and short term investments balances.  

When considering the exposure under the agreements whereby the Company sells equipment finance contracts to both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks, the Company has the ability to select pricing based on interest rates ranging from 30 day LIBOR up to twelve month LIBOR. In addition, the portfolio of installment contracts generally turns over in less than 48 months and the Company can adjust the rate it charges on new customer contracts at any time. Therefore, in times where the interest rate markets are not rapidly increasing or decreasing, the average interest rate in the portfolio generally moves with the interest rate markets and thus would parallel the underlying interest rate movement of the pricing built into the sale agreements. In calculating the gain on the contract sales, the Company uses an interest rate curve that approximates the maturity period of the then-outstanding contracts. If increases in the interest rate markets occur, the average interest rate in our contract portfolio may not increase at the same rate, resulting in a reduction of gain on the contracts sales as compared to the gain that would be realized if the average interest rate in our portfolio were to increase at a more similar rate to the interest rate markets.  

The Company estimates that if interest rates had been 10% higher during the year, the annual impact would have been to reduce earnings before income tax by approximately $4 million.  

43  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA