ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  

If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.  

Current Economic and Political Risks  

Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world.  

Ongoing concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage and real estate markets, sovereign debt crises, fear of a double-dip recession and geopolitical issues have contributed to uncertain expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with still relatively low levels of business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, continue to impact global economies, which helped drive declines in credit and charge card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns by consumers and businesses. It is unclear the degree to which the U.S. government’s economic stimulus spending will foster economic growth in the United States during the remainder of 2010. This environment has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. If the economy were to worsen, customer behaviors could change further. For example, Cardmembers could decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high levels to replace cash expenditures.  

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares.  

The scarcity of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, reduced consumer and business spending, and credit metric performance also pose other risks to our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks, among others, in connection with these events:  

   •    The processes we use to estimate losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation.  

   •    Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite credit to our customers become less predictive of future write-offs.  

67  

Table of Contents 

   •    In the event the respective three-month average rate of excess spread earned on credit card loans and charge card receivables securitized by us falls below certain designated levels, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to fund a cash reserve account (from cash that would normally revert back to us through the collection process), or, in the event such three-month average should fall below zero, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to amortize earlier than scheduled, which would accelerate our need for additional funding.  

Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns.  

Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks.  

If the conditions described above (or similar ones) persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.  

The global money and capital markets, while demonstrating generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions.  

We need liquidity to pay operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, deposits placed with the Company’s U.S. banks, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets.  

Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. The fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial services companies. Although the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations has improved since the third quarter of 2009, there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. Therefore, our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. In addition, our liquidity position will be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the growth of our brokered retail CD program and brokerage sweep account program and the implementation of our direct deposit initiative. We also would have less flexibility in accessing the commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle due to Credco’s short-term debt rating and the volatility in the commercial paper market generally.  

In the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies), and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. While we experienced some positive credit trends in the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge card and credit card portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt ratings could be further downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review—Funding Programs and Activities” on pages 40-43 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

We can be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial institutions.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Any reduction in the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Although the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt have been downgraded during the second quarter of 2009 by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding.  

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies.  

Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations.  

During 2009, over 32% of our revenue net of interest expense was generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the  

69  

Table of Contents 

 values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Legal and Regulatory Risks  

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

The CARD Act requires the Company to make fundamental changes to many of our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances (with limited exceptions), requires additional account disclosures, provides consumers with the right to opt out of significant changes to account terms, and restricts penalty fees and charges that may be imposed by an issuer.  

Most of the requirements of the CARD Act become effective in February 2010. Additional amendments to Regulation Z revising the open-end credit disclosure requirements become effective on July 1, 2010. Two provisions of the CARD Act do not come into effect until August 22, 2010. One of these provisions addresses the reasonableness and proportionality of penalty fees charged. The other provision requires issuers to evaluate past interest rate increases twice per year. The Federal Reserve is required to adopt regulations implementing these provisions, but has not yet done so. Because implementing regulations are not final, it is difficult to assess the impact of these two provisions. However, the regulations implementing these provisions could have a significant impact on our results of our operations.  

While the Company is making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company’s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to successfully implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the Company’s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, it will have a material adverse effect on results of operations.  

Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms could, if enacted or adopted, result in our business becoming subject to significant and extensive additional regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

The extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions have led to numerous proposals for legislative and regulatory reform that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and that may significantly impact the Company. These proposals include the following:  

   •    Establishing a federal consumer financial protection agency that would have, among other things, broad authority to regulate, and take enforcement actions against, providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services.  

   •    Requiring heightened scrutiny and stricter regulation of any financial institution whose combination of size, leverage and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if it failed, restricting the activities of such institutions, and allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a grave risk to the economy.  

70  

Table of Contents 

   •    Requiring large financial institutions, including, as proposed, American Express, to contribute to a fund that would be used to recover the cost of dismantling a bank or financial institution that is dismantled because it poses a grave risk to the economy.  

   •    Changing requirements for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements for asset securitizations.  

   •    Tightening controls on the ability of banking institutions to engage in transactions with affiliates.  

   •    Assessing financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, including, as proposed, American Express, with a “financial crisis responsibility fee” assessed at approximately 0.15% of total assets (less Tier 1 capital and less FDIC-assessed deposits). The fee as proposed would last for at least the next ten years and has been proposed for the purpose of recovering projected losses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  

   •    Limiting the size and activities of financial institutions, including proposals to repeal portions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.  

   •    Amending regulatory capital standards, and increasing regulatory capital requirements, for banks and other financial institutions, including American Express and its insured depository institution subsidiaries, and establishing new formulaic liquidity requirements applicable to financial institutions, including those proposals described above under “Supervision and Regulation—Proposed Capital and Liquidity Requirements” on pages 38-39.  

   •    Establishing heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions, including those proposals described above under “Supervision and Regulations—Compensation Practices” on pages 44-45.  

Lawmakers and regulators in the United States and worldwide continue to consider these and a number of other wide-ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. For example, separate comprehensive financial reform bills were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a financial reform bill in December of 2009, but similar action has not been taken by the U.S. Senate.  

In addition to proposed legislation effecting the financial services industry, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by other legislative action or inaction, including the potential failure of the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on our net income.  

We cannot predict the final form, or effects on American Express, of these or other potential or proposed reforms. These and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices or alter its relationships with customers, affect retention of key Company personnel, or expose the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

Please see “Supervision and Regulation” on pages 35-45 for more information about the regulation to which we are subject.  

Potential actions by the FDIC and the rating agencies could impact the Company’s ABS program.  

The credit rating agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued accounting standards for transfers of financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the “New Accounting Standards”) on credit ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed  

71  

Table of Contents 

 securities market. (The New Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can find on page 76 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) In particular, the agencies are assessing the FDIC’s safe harbor rule relating to the FDIC’s treatment of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring financial institution’s receivership or conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Although the FDIC extended, on an interim basis, the safe harbor rule to some transfers of financial assets in connection with securitizations where the transfer will no longer qualify for sale accounting treatment under GAAP as a result of the New Accounting Standards, the Company cannot predict how the FDIC will act and whether or to what extent the safe harbor rule might apply in the future. Because the adoption of the New Accounting Standards may cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset sales for accounting purposes within a company’s consolidated group, the rating agencies have indicated that they may ultimately conclude that the safe harbor no longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an ABS security could receive would be based on the sponsoring bank’s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate evaluation of the securitization trust. Accordingly, the ability of the Company’s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject to uncertainty. Any action by the rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company’s ability to utilize ABS as a source of funding for its business.  

Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by increases in FDIC deposit insurance assessments.  

FDIC deposit insurance assessments have become considerably higher recently because market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The failure of additional insured depository institutions could result in further depletion of the deposit insurance fund. Assessments may continue to increase, and special assessments may be levied, until the value of the fund has returned to levels the FDIC determines appropriate. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessments further or whether the FDIC will levy additional special assessments. Further increase in assessments, or imposition of special assessments, by the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulation and supervision to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company.  

On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities under the Federal Reserve’s regulations. For additional information about this change in regulatory status, please see “Supervision and Regulation—General” beginning on page 35 above.  

If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.  

We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if  

72  

Table of Contents 

 prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. For more information on bank holding company dividend restrictions, please see “Financial Review—Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 40 and Note 23 on page 119 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on our Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network.  

We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge and credit Cards. In addition, the European Union has adopted a new legislative directive, called the Payment Services Directive, for electronic payment services, including cards, that puts in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business.  

The U.S. Congress is also presently considering, or may consider, legislative initiatives in the area of Internet transactions, such as Internet prescription drug purchases and copyright and trademark infringement, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on our Company. Federal and state law enforcement authorities have also contacted payment companies concerning these issues. If implemented, these initiatives may require us to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of charge and credit card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth.  

In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, the European Union (EU), Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela, among others, have conducted investigations that are either ongoing or on appeal. The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively set interchange fees. Although the regulators’ focus has primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and on their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations’ pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.  

73  

Table of Contents 

In the United States, Congress continues to debate the interchange issue. There have been several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last several years, and in 2009 at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completed a study on the structure of interchange fees and their impact on consumers and merchants. The report provides a balanced view of the interchange issue and explains how large merchants would benefit and how consumers could be harmed by the pending legislative proposals. In 2009, legislation was reintroduced in Congress that would give all U.S. merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate collectively the price and terms of card acceptance on networks. The House Judiciary Committee bill covers networks with at least a 20% share of U.S. credit and debit card payments combined, which would not apply to the American Express network but, if enacted, would have an effect on American Express in the marketplace. The Senate version of the bill covers networks with at least 10% of U.S. credit or debit payments, which would apply to American Express. Both bills have a default process for having prices and terms set through government action rather than competitive forces. A similar version of the House bill (the “Credit Card Fair Fee Act”) was passed in the House Judiciary Committee in 2008. No action was taken on either of these bills in 2009. The House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on a third piece of interchange-related legislation that was reintroduced in 2009 (the “Credit Card Interchange Fees Act”), a bill that would regulate payment network rules, including the American Express network. No further action was taken on this bill. It is expected that Congressional hearings will continue in 2010 on the interchange issue. The Federal Reserve and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue, it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States.  

Increased regulatory focus on our Company, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  

If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.  

Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of our business, including in transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Our ability to develop, acquire, or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from Cardmembers or merchants to such changes.  

We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages.  

74  

Table of Contents 

Regulation in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our costs and decrease the number of charge and credit cards issued.  

We are subject to regulations related to privacy and data security/breach, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations. For example, in the United States, we are subject to the data security rule under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The data security rule requires that each financial institution develop, implement, and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue.  

Further, a growing number of states, including, notably, Massachusetts and Nevada, have adopted broad-ranging data security regulations regarding the protection of customer and employee data that could result in higher compliance and technology costs for the Company, as well as potentially significant fines and penalties for non-compliance.  

Many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are also expanding the scope of their data security requirements and standards, as well as increasing enforcement activity in this area. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. The Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union Member States. As these laws expand throughout the European Union where we have a significant commercial presence, compliance costs are increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data privacy protections and data transfer mechanisms are in place.  

In addition to the foregoing enhanced data security requirements, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as many as 45 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data breach regulations and laws requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Data breach laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that have yet to impose automatic data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data breaches. Many of these regulations also apply broadly to retailers/merchants that accept our cards; thus, to the extent they experience data security breaches, this presents additional risks for American Express and our Cardmembers. The heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach, continues. The current 111th Congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2010 that, if implemented, could present new risks and costs for us.  

We continue to seek ways to minimize these risks and costs internally by improving our own data privacy and security policies and practices, and externally through regular improvements to the PCI Data Security Standard and by placing strong contractual obligations on retailers/merchants that accept our Cards, as well as on our service providers, relating to data security and data breach. Still, increased regulation and enforcement activity throughout the world in the areas of data privacy and data security/breach may materially increase our costs and may decrease the number of our Cards that we issue, or restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data security/breach laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, and damage to our global reputation and our brand.  

Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.  

Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is  

75  

Table of Contents 

 relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further described in “Supervision and Regulation—Compensation Practices” on pages 44-45, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including any incentive compensation policies, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.  

Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses.  

Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses and damage to our global reputation and our brand.  

Business Risks  

Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry.  

The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge and credit card networks, evolving alternative payment mechanisms and systems. We are the third largest general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. As a result, other card issuers may be able to benefit from the strong position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors.  

In addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats.  

Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services than we are. Spending on our Cards could be impacted by consumer usage of debit cards, as we do not currently issue point-of-sale debit cards for use on the American Express Network. In fact, the purchase volume and number of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions. In addition, to the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such as aggregators, continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our merchant revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted.  

Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. These or similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively.  

76  

Table of Contents 

We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants who accept our Cards for payment for goods and services.  

Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. This pressure arises, in part, due to the regulatory pressure on our competitors outside the United States, which has been increasing. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate we charge merchants or are unable to sustain premium merchant discount rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected.  

We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our profitability.  

Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition and seek to capture a greater share of customers’ total spending on Cards issued on our network, both in the United States and in our international operations, is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to cost effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs that are more attractive to cardmembers than our programs.  

Our ability to continue to invest in marketing, promotion and rewards programs, as well as our overall profitability, may be negatively impacted if we are unable to replace the payments provided to us under our previously disclosed litigation settlements with Visa and MasterCard once the aggregate settlement amounts have been paid in full through the fourth and second quarters of 2011, respectively.  

Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.  

Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain consumer Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.  

An increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards.  

We and other third parties store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable and common way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data breaches or fraud levels involving our Cards were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention  

77  

Table of Contents 

 (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.  

We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners.  

In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, most notably the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. In addition, under some types of these contractual arrangements, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that will not be fully redeemed for multi-year periods. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that are bankrupt or have ceased operations.  

There could be continued significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States, through mergers and/or grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint ventures. The United States Department of Transportation has granted antitrust immunity to members of the Skyteam Alliance and the Star Alliance, enabling them to closely coordinate their international operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. The Department of Transportation has granted preliminary approval of a similar request by members of the Oneworld Alliance for antitrust immunity. Among other things, this immunity permits alliance members to jointly price and manage capacity on covered routes, share revenues and costs, and coordinate sales and corporate contracts, outside of the scope of the antitrust laws. The European Commission’s review of each of these alliances is continuing. Increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including by reducing our profitability on our airline business. Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. If a surviving airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand card, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the agreements with Delta and general risks related to the airline industry, see “Financial Review—Exposure to Airline Industry” on page 60 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended.  

We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and  

78  

Table of Contents 

 improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, including the ability of the Global Services Group to generate an annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective.  

We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card products.  

Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners and GCC clients. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds.  

Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers.  

We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall.  

We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in our investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable.  

Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital” above.  

Finally, we must also manage the operational risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving our business objectives due to failed processes, people or information systems, or from the external environment, such as natural disasters. Operational risks include the risk that we may not  

79  

Table of Contents 

 comply with specific regulatory or legal requirements, exposing us to fines and/or penalties and possibly brand damage; employee error or intentional misconduct that results in a material financial misstatement; or a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement, resulting in economic harm to us.  

Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective. See “Financial Review—Risk Management” on pages 47-49 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Management of credit, market and operational risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  

An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.  

As an additional source of funding, our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through brokerage networks as well as directly to consumers.  

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $26.3 billion in total customer deposits, a large portion of which was raised through brokerage networks. Many other financial services firms are increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted.  

Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including our banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). While we met the FDIC’s definition of “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet this definition. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well-capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.  

If our global network systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue and profitability would be materially reduced.  

Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A natural disaster or other problem at our facilities could interrupt our services. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenue and profitability.  

80  

Table of Contents 

We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.  

We operate a service network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. In addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world.  

Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements  

We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES