ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

FLIR was founded in 1978 and has since grown substantially due to increasing demand for infrared products across a growing number of markets combined with the execution of a series of acquisitions. Today we are one of the world leaders in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of applications in the commercial, industrial and government markets worldwide.  

Our Thermography business primarily consists of the design and manufacture of hand-held thermal imaging systems that can detect and measure very small temperature differences, which is useful for a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications. Uses for our Thermography products include high-end predictive and preventative maintenance, research and development, test and measurement, leak detection and scientific analysis. A growing distribution network has enabled us to penetrate existing and emerging markets and applications worldwide.  

Our Commercial Vision Systems business is focused on the development, manufacture and sale of generally lower cost uncooled products to emerging commercial markets where the primary requirement is to see at night or in adverse conditions. These markets are developing rapidly and include such uses as automotive night vision, recreational marine, firefighting, airborne law enforcement and commercial security. Commercial Vision Systems also sells camera cores, readout integrated circuits and other sub-components to OEMs in certain markets. Our infrared sensor business, which supplies both internal and external customers, is also part of Commercial Vision Systems. Vertical integration into infrared sensors provides us with the ability to design and produce infrared detectors, allowing us to reduce our costs and open new markets.  

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company began the consolidation of its Commercial Vision Systems and Thermography divisions into one unit, the Commercial Systems division. The new division will continue to focus on the large potential for growth in commercial and industrial markets, and will create value from commonality in distribution, customers and strategic product development focused on uncooled infrared technology. For 2010, however, we will continue to report the financial results of the former Commercial Vision Systems division and Thermography division as we undergo the transition of consolidating these two segments. As we expect Thermography and Commercial Vision Systems to be substantially consolidated by the end of 2010, we expect to report the financial results for Commercial Systems as a single segment in 2011.  

Our Government Systems business is focused primarily on markets where very high performance is required. The primary market for these products is government customers, who use our hand-held and fixed mounted products for such applications as force protection, counter terrorism, search and rescue, perimeter security, navigation safety, law enforcement, narcotics detection, maritime and border patrol, and anti-piracy. A substantial portion of our revenue in the Government Systems business is derived from sales to government agencies and we are continuing to expand our military program business, both in the United States and internationally.  

International revenue accounted for approximately 41 percent, 38 percent and 39 percent of our revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, euro, Swedish kroner and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

24  

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the frequent requirement by certain customers to take delivery of equipment prior to the end of December due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue recognition. The majority of our revenue is recognized upon shipment of the product to the customer at a fixed or determinable price and with a reasonable assurance of collection, passage of title to the customer as indicated by the shipping terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations.  

We design, market and sell our products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Many of our Government Systems and Commercial Vision Systems customers, particularly those who use our airborne systems, request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those limited circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate that the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts, etc.) undelivered at the end of a reporting period, we recognize revenue on the delivered elements only after we have determined that the delivered elements have stand alone value and any undelivered elements have objective and reliable evidence of fair value. In addition, judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that collectability is reasonably assured.  

Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customer’s account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. Actual write-offs during the past three years have not been material to our results of operations.  

25  

We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2009, our accounts receivable balance of $235.0 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $2.0 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2009, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made.  

Inventory. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2009, our inventories of $216.5 million are stated net of inventory write-downs of $18.6 million. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.  

Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with our business acquisitions. We review goodwill in June of each year, or on an interim basis if required, for impairment to determine if events or changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. Such reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future cash flows we expect the assets to generate within the boundaries of the applicable business divisions of the Company. Our current review indicates that no adjustments are necessary for the goodwill assets, which have a carrying value of $262.3 million as of December 31, 2009.  

Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve months, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $8.7 million at December 31, 2009 is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly.  

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted.  

Income taxes. We record our deferred tax assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2009, we have determined that no valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets of $18.6 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.  

26  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007  

Revenue. Revenue for 2009 totaled $1,147.1 million, an increase of 6.5 percent over 2008 revenue of $1,077.0 million. Revenue from the Government Systems business segment increased 15.2 percent from $569.0 million in 2008 to $655.3 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to an increase in unit sales of our large-gimbaled systems. The effects of exchange rates decreased Government Systems revenue by 2.9 percent over 2008. Thermography revenue decreased 12.8 percent from $327.3 million in 2008 to $285.5 million in 2009. The decrease in Thermography revenue was primarily due to worldwide economic conditions in 2009, lower demand for high-value products and currency translation. The effects of exchange rates decreased Thermography revenue in 2009 by 3.6 percent over 2008. Commercial Vision Systems revenue increased 14.2 percent from $180.6 million in 2008 to $206.3 million in 2009. The increase in Commercial Vision Systems revenue was primarily due to increases in unit sales across most of the product lines. The effects of exchange rates decreased Commercial Vision Systems revenue by 2.1 percent over 2008.  

The impacts on revenue (and expenses) arising from business acquisitions during 2009 are not significant to our 2009 results of operations.  

Revenue for 2008 totaled $1,077.0 million, an increase of 38.2 percent over the $779.4 million revenue in 2007. Revenue from the Government Systems business segment increased 48.8 percent from $382.3 million in 2007 to $569.0 million in 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in unit sales across most of our product lines and an increase in the long-term program business. Thermography revenue increased $65.5 million, or 25.0 percent, from $261.8 million in 2007 to $327.3 million in 2008. Excluding revenue from Extech Instruments Corporation (“Extech”), acquired in the fourth quarter of 2007 and Cedip Infrared Systems (“Cedip”), acquired during the first quarter of 2008, Thermography revenue increased 5.1 percent in 2008 over 2007. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to increased unit sales in our T-Series™, i-Series™ and SC-Series™ product lines, offset by decreased unit sales in our P-Series™ and E-Series™ product lines. In addition, 2008 Thermography revenue was negatively impacted by the decline of the Swedish kroner against the United States dollar during the fourth quarter of 2008. Revenue from the Commercial Vision Systems business  

27  

 segment increased 33.6 percent from $135.2 million in 2007 to $180.6 million in 2008. The increase in Commercial Vision Systems revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit sales across all major product lines of the segment.  

International revenue in 2009 totaled $474.8 million, representing 41.4 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2008 which totaled $407.8 million, representing 37.9 percent of revenue and $301.9 million in 2007, representing 38.7 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to account for a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.  

Gross profit. Gross profit in 2009 was 57.4 percent of revenue compared to 56.3 percent of revenue in 2008. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to cost and production efficiencies related to increased volume, product mix and lower production costs in our Sweden and Estonia facilities.  

Gross profit in 2008 was 56.3 percent of revenue, compared to 55.6 percent in 2007. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to cost efficiencies realized by increased volumes in our Government Systems and Commercial Vision Systems manufacturing facilities, slightly offset by the lower gross profit percentage recognized at Extech and Cedip.  

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.  

Research and development. Research and development expenses were $91.3 million, or 8.0 percent of revenue in 2009, compared to $90.0 million, or 8.4 percent of revenue, in 2008, and $72.5 million, or 9.3 percent of revenue, in 2007. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue during the three year period was primarily due to cost containment efforts, such as salary freezes and reduction of consultant expenses, in response to weak economic conditions and due to currency translation.  

We believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to be approximately 8 to 10 percent of revenue on a long-term basis.  

We have also incurred expenses associated with customer funded design and development contracts. Such expenses were $5.4 million in 2009, $6.0 million in 2008 and $8.9 million in 2007. These expenses are reported as cost of goods sold since the related funding is reported as revenue.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $219.9 million, or 19.2 percent of revenue in 2009 compared to $231.7 million, or 21.5 percent of revenue, in 2008 and $168.9 million, or 21.7 percent of revenue, in 2007. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to cost containment efforts in response to economic conditions, currency translation and lower annual incentive compensation costs. During 2009 and 2008 we incurred significant legal costs related to the legal matter described in Note 13, “Contingencies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from 2007 to 2008 was due to the continued growth in the business, including costs associated with new product launches and increased performance incentive and stock-based compensation costs. We anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses in the future to increase at a slower rate than revenue.  

Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $6.9 million, $14.3 million and $15.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Interest expense is primarily attributable to interest on the  

28  

 convertible notes that were issued in June 2003, the amortization of the discounts recorded on the notes and the costs related to the issuance of the notes. The decrease in interest expense in 2009 is primarily due to the conversion of some of our outstanding convertible notes in the fourth quarter of 2008, the third and fourth quarters of 2009 and the exchange of a portion of the convertible notes pursuant to the Company’s exchange offer in the first quarter of 2009.  

Interest income. Interest income was $ 1.7 million, $7.4 million and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower interest rates in 2009. The increase in interest income in 2008 over 2007 was primarily due to an increase in invested cash.  

Other income, net. We reported other expense of $1.8 million in 2009 and other income of $12.8 million and $3.9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The other expense in 2009 is primarily currency losses offset by investment gains. The other income in 2008 and 2007 is primarily currency gains on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in our European operations.  

Income taxes. Our income tax provision was $110.2 million, $89.4 million and $52.5 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 32.4 percent, 30.8 percent and 28.2 percent, respectively. The mix in taxable income between our United States and international operations impacted the income tax provisions in each of these years. Our effective tax rate is lower than the United States federal tax rate of 35 percent because of lower foreign tax rates, the effect of foreign tax credits and other federal and state tax credits.  

At December 31, 2009, we had United States tax net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $5.8 million which expire in 2029. In addition, the Company has Colorado state net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $3.9 million which expire in 2029.  

Tax benefits as described above are recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. We believe that the net deferred tax assets of $18.6 million reflected on the December 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet are realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon and therefore, we have not recorded a valuation allowance.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At December 31, 2009, we had $422.0 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $289.4 million at December 31, 2008. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to cash provided from operations and the cash proceeds and tax benefits generated from our stock-based compensation programs, offset by business acquisitions, capital expenditures, and the repurchase of our common stock.  

Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 totaled $271.8 million compared to $218.3 million in 2008. The increase in cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in net earnings and a lower level of net cash used in 2009 compared to 2008 for operating assets and liabilities, principally accounts receivable, inventories and accrued payroll.  

Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $107.7 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Salvador, OmniTech, and Directed Perception and capital expenditures. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $114.0 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Cedip and Ifara Tecnologias, S. L. and capital expenditures.  

Cash used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $43.5 million, primarily consisting of the repurchase of approximately 3.2 million shares of our common stock, offset by proceeds from  

29  

 shares issued for and tax benefits recognized from our stock-based compensation plans. Cash provided from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $2.6 million, primarily consisting of proceeds from shares issued for and tax benefits recognized from our stock-based compensation plans, offset by the repurchase of approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock and repayments of short-term debt.  

On October 6, 2006, we signed a Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., Union Bank of California, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association and other Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million, five-year revolving line of credit. We have the right, subject to certain conditions including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the line of credit by an additional $150 million until October 6, 2011. The Credit Agreement includes a $100 million sublimit multicurrency option, permitting us and certain of our designated subsidiaries to borrow in euro, kroner, pound sterling and other agreed upon currencies. Under the Credit Agreement, borrowings will bear interest based upon the prime lending rate of the Bank of America or Eurodollar rates with a provision for a spread over Eurodollar rates based upon our leverage ratio. The Eurodollar interest rate was 1.001 percent and the prime lending rate was 3.25 percent at December 31, 2009. These rates were 2.175 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused credit at a rate, based on our leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.175 percent to 0.325 percent. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the commitment fee rate was 0.175 percent. The Credit Agreement contains five financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios, in addition to minimum levels of EBITDA and consolidated net worth, a maximum level of capital expenditures and, commencing December 31, 2009, a minimum level of liquidity comprised of cash and undrawn/unutilized availability under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. We had $7.8 million and $15.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which reduces the total available credit.  

Our Sweden subsidiary has a 30 million Swedish kroner (approximately $4.2 million) line of credit with an interest rate at 0.95 percent at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had no amounts outstanding on this line of credit. The 30 million Swedish kroner line of credit is secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the Sweden subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis.  

In June 2003, we issued $210 million of 3.0 percent senior convertible notes due in 2023 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $203.9 million. Issuance costs are being amortized over a period of seven years. Interest is payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The holders of the notes may convert all or some of their notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 90.1224 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes prior to the maturity date in certain circumstances. We may redeem for cash all or part of the notes on or after June 8, 2010. The convertible notes are eligible for conversion at the option of the note holders.  

On February 5, 2009, we commenced an exchange offer for any and all of the outstanding convertible notes. The offer was made pursuant to an Offer to Exchange and related documents, each dated February 5, 2009. Holders who elected to exchange their notes in this offer and whose notes were accepted for exchange by us received 90.1224 shares of our common stock and a cash payment of $20 per $1,000 principal amount of notes. The offer expired on March 9, 2009. Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $99.9 million were exchanged pursuant to the exchange offer for approximately 9.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock and approximately $2.0 million in cash.  

In addition, in July 2009, convertible notes with an aggregate principal amount of $30.1 million were converted into approximately 2.7 million shares of the Company’s common stock, and in December 2009, convertible notes with an aggregate principal amount of $2.7 million were converted into 244,000 shares of the Company’s common stock.  

30  

As of December 31, 2009, notes with an aggregate principal amount of $151.2 million have been exchanged or converted into approximately 13.6 million shares of the Company’s common stock. We anticipate that all remaining note holders will exercise their option to convert the remaining notes in June 2010.  

We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate to generate from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

As of December 31, 2009, we leased our non-owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. Except for these operating lease agreements, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2009, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Principal and interest obligations on our long-term debt are based upon contractual maturities; however, we believe based upon the conversion and redemption features of our convertible notes that all of these notes will be extinguished by June 2010. Operating leases and licensing rights obligations are based upon contractual terms. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts.  

We did not include $8.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows as of December 31, 2009. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities and the total amounts of income tax payable and the timing of such tax payments may depend on the resolution of current and future tax examinations which cannot be estimated.  

We did not include approximately $12.3 million of standby letters of credit and performance bonds due to the unlikely event of payment, if any, of amounts under those arrangements.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  

31  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK