ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Introduction

This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. The following will be discussed and analyzed:

•Overview of Business

•Overview of 2015 Results

•Results of Operations and Related Information

•Unaudited Quarterly Data

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

•Legal Matters

•Business Outlook

•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Throughout this MD&A, we refer to financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP, and are therefore referred to as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures include adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted other (income) and expense, net, and adjusted effective tax rate. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the financial measures used to evaluate management. 

Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures, and they should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to the GAAP measures and by providing reconciliations of the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures. 

The non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items for the relevant time periods as indicated in the reconciliations included later in this MD&A:

•Pension settlement charges - In 2015, we recorded settlement-related charges from certain actions taken for our U.S. pension plan. 

•Charges related to Venezuelan Operations - Results in 2015, 2014 and 2013 include charges for remeasuring the local currency balance sheet in Venezuela, and in 2015 include charges for the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations.

•Uncertain tax positions adjustment - In the fourth quarter of 2015, we updated our assessment of uncertain tax positions   for certain international operations, and recorded a charge related to prior years in provision for income taxes.

•2014 Organization Restructuring - In October 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business. Results in both 2014 and 2015 include charges related to this initiative.

•Turkey restructuring - In 2015, we recorded charges related to the restructuring of our operations in Turkey. 

•Regulatory dispute in the Middle East - In 2014, we recorded a charge as a result of an adverse court ruling regarding the treatment of capital contributions in prior years to an affiliate in the Middle East. 

•European strategic changes and related restructuring charges - In 2012, we initiated strategic changes to and a related restructuring in our Western and Central European businesses. Results in 2014 and 2013 include charges related to this restructuring activity. 

In addition, we provide commentary regarding organic net sales, which exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency rates and lower sales in 2014 and 2013 associated with European strategic changes and tissue restructuring actions.

  12KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Overview of Business

We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life, with manufacturing facilities in 36 countries and products sold in more than 175 countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have three reportable business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional ("KCP"). These business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In operating our business, we seek to:

•manage our portfolio to balance growth, profit margin and cash flow, 

•invest in our brands, innovation and growth initiatives, 

•deliver sustainable cost reductions, and 

•provide disciplined capital management to improve return on invested capital and return cash to shareholders. 

Beginning in 2015, we describe our business outside North America in two groups – Developing and Emerging Markets ("D&E") and Developed Markets, instead of K-C International ("KCI") and Europe. D&E markets comprise Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, excluding Australia and South Korea. Developed Markets consist of Western and Central Europe, Australia and South Korea. Previously, KCI consisted of our businesses in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa.

Highlights for 2015 include the following:

•Net sales of $18.6 billion decreased 6 percent compared to 2014. Weakening foreign currency exchanges rates significantly decreased net sales and operating profit. Organic net sales increased 5 percent. 

•We executed our growth strategies in D&E markets with a focus on China, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Organic net sales in D&E grew 10 percent in 2015 as a result of strong growth in diapers, feminine care, adult care and baby wipes. In D&E, we continue to benefit from innovation, expansion, category development and higher net selling prices.

•In North America, we generated 5 percent volume growth in our consumer business, with increases on most brands. Results benefited from innovations, promotion support, category growth and market share gains. 

•In our Developed Markets outside North America, organic net sales were even with prior year.

•To help fund our investments in innovations and growth initiatives and to improve our profit margins, we are generating cost savings through several initiatives, including leveraging our global procurement organization and deploying lean principles. Full-year cost savings from our ongoing FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) program in 2015 were $365.

•In 2015, we continued to execute our 2014 Organization Restructuring in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business in 2014. The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2016. In 2015, savings from this initiative were $65.

•We continued to focus on generating cash flow and allocating capital to shareholders. In 2015, cash provided by operations was $2.3 billion, and share repurchases of Kimberly-Clark common stock were $0.8 billion. In addition, we raised our dividend in 2015 by 5 percent, the 43rd consecutive annual increase in our dividend. Altogether, share repurchases and dividends in 2015 amounted to $2.1 billion.

We completed the spin-off of our health care business on October 31, 2014. As a result, the health care business is presented as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Income Statement in 2014 and 2013. 

We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.

  13KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Overview of 2015 Results

•Net sales of $18.6 billion decreased 6 percent compared to prior year, as changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased net sales by 10 percent.

•Operating profit and income from continuing operations decreased 36 percent and 31 percent, respectively, compared to 2014. Comparisons were negatively impacted by significant unfavorable currency effects, as well as adjusting items described elsewhere in this MD&A. 

•Adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share increased 1 percent and 5 percent, respectively, compared to 2014.

Results of Operations and Related Information

This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2015 results of operations. This discussion and analysis compares 2015 results to 2014, and 2014 results to 2013. The reference to "N.M." indicates that the calculation is not meaningful. 

Consolidated

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Profit Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Operating profit includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  14KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Consolidated Net Sales and Adjusted Operating Profit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Mix/Other includes rounding

Other (Income) & Expense, Net Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Other (income) & expense, net includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted other (income) and expense, net was expense of $62 in 2015 and income of $3 in 2014. The change was driven by higher foreign currency transaction losses in 2015 compared to 2014, and gains on asset sales in 2014. Lower income of $3 in 2014 compared to $34 in 2013 was driven by higher foreign currency transaction losses in 2014, as both periods included gains on the sale of non-core assets.

  15KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Provision for Income Taxes Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Provision for income taxes includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in adjusted tax rate in 2015 is primarily due to the redemption of preferred securities in 2014.

Share of Net Income from Equity Companies

Our share of net income of equity companies was $149 in 2015, $146 in 2014 and $205 in 2013. Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("KCM") results in 2015 compared to 2014 benefited from increased organic net sales, cost savings, and lower input costs, partially offset by a weaker Mexican peso. Results in 2014 compared to 2013 were negatively impacted by input cost increases and a weaker Mexican peso, partially offset by increased sales volumes and cost savings. 

Income from Discontinued Operations

Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $50 in 2014 and $203 in 2013. The decrease was primarily due to after tax charges of $138 ($157 pre-tax), excluded from adjusted earnings per share, related to the spin-off of our health care business.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased in 2015 as a result of the redemption of preferred securities. In 2014, adjusted net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of $87 includes an adjustment of $18, excluded from adjusted earnings per share, as a result of an adverse court ruling regarding the treatment of capital contributions in prior years to an affiliate in the Middle East.

  16KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark and Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations Reconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark and Diluted Earnings Per Share include the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2015 and 2014 are primarily due to lower share counts and higher earnings. 

  17KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Geographical Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  18KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Business Segments

Personal Care

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Mix/Other includes rounding

2014 vs. 2013

In 2014, net sales of $9.6 billion increased 1 percent compared to 2013. Sales volumes and net selling prices each increased 3 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 4 percent, and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,803 increased 6 percent. The comparison benefited from higher net selling prices, sales volume growth and cost savings, partially offset by unfavorable effects from changes in currency rates and input cost inflation.

Net sales in North America were essentially even with the prior year. Slightly higher sales volumes and net selling prices were offset by unfavorable currency rates. Huggies baby wipes volumes rose double-digits, including benefits from market share gains and product innovation. Adult care volumes increased high-single digits, including innovation on Depend and Poise brands. Huggies diaper volumes decreased mid-single digits and were impacted by market share declines and competitive promotional activity. Child care volumes decreased mid-single digits, driven by lower Pull-Ups training pants volumes, partially offset by the launch of new GoodNites youth pants. Feminine care volumes were down slightly.

Net sales in KCI increased 4 percent. Sales volumes increased 6 percent, and net selling prices were higher by 5 percent, partially offset by unfavorable currency rates of 7 percent. The volume increase included gains in China, Eastern Europe, South Africa, South Korea, Vietnam and most of Latin America. The higher net selling prices were driven by increases in Latin America and Eastern Europe in response to weaker currency rates and cost inflation. 

Net sales in Europe decreased 19 percent. Lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 20 percent and net selling prices decreased net sales by 1 percent. Favorable currency rates increased net sales by 2 percent. 

  19KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Consumer Tissue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Mix/Other includes rounding

2014 vs. 2013

In 2014, net sales of $6.6 billion were essentially even with the prior year. Sales volumes and net selling prices each increased net sales by 1 percent. Unfavorable currency rates decreased net sales by 1 percent, and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,062 increased 7 percent. The comparison benefited from higher net selling prices and cost savings, partially offset by input cost inflation and higher manufacturing-related costs in 2014. 

Net sales in North America increased 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 2 percent, driven by growth in Cottonelle and Scott bathroom tissue and the launch of Viva Vantage paper towels. Unfavorable currency effects and changes in product mix reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. 

Net sales in KCI increased 1 percent. Net selling prices increased net sales by 4 percent, and improved product mix and growth in sales volumes increased net sales by a combined 1 percent. Unfavorable currency rates decreased net sales by 4 percent. The improvement in net selling prices was driven by increases in Latin America. 

Net sales in Europe decreased 4 percent, driven by lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions which reduced net sales by a combined 6 percent. Favorable currency rates increased net sales by 3 percent. 

  20KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

K-C Professional

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Mix/Other includes rounding

2014 vs. 2013

In 2014, net sales of $3.4 billion increased 2 percent compared to 2013. Sales volumes increased 3 percent, and net selling prices improved by 1 percent. The impact of currency rates on net sales was unfavorable by 2 percent. Operating profit of $604 was essentially even with the prior year. The comparison benefited from sales volume growth, higher net selling prices and cost savings, offset by input cost inflation and unfavorable currency effects. 

Net sales in North America decreased 2 percent. Net selling prices were lower by 2 percent, and unfavorable currency effects and changes in product mix decreased net sales by a combined 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent, driven by gains in safety products, wipers and other categories, partially offset by declines in washroom products. 

Net sales in KCI increased 8 percent, despite unfavorable currency rates of 5 percent. Sales volumes rose 7 percent, net selling prices improved net sales by 5 percent and product mix improved 1 percent. Sales volumes rose in each major geography.

Net sales in Europe increased 3 percent. Sales volumes increased 3 percent, driven by growth in washroom products. Favorable currency rates and improved product mix each increased net sales by 1 percent, while lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions and the impact of lower net selling prices each reduced net sales by 1 percent. 

  21KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Changes

Effective January 2015, the U.S. pension plan was amended to include a lump-sum pension benefit payout option for certain plan participants. In addition, in April 2015, the U.S. pension plan completed the purchase of group annuity contracts that transferred to two insurance companies the pension benefit obligations totaling $2.5 billion for approximately 21,000 Kimberly-Clark retirees in the United States. As a result of these changes, we recognized pension settlement-related charges of $0.8 billion after tax ($1.4 billion pre-tax in other (income) and expense, net) during 2015, mostly in the second quarter. In 2015, we made cash contributions of $484 to our pension trusts, of which $410 relates to the changes in the U.S. plan. 

2014 Organization Restructuring

In October 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business. The restructuring is intended to improve our underlying profitability and increase our flexibility to invest in targeted growth initiatives, brand building and other capabilities critical to delivering future growth.

The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2016, with total costs anticipated to be $130 to $160 after tax ($190 to $230 pre-tax). Cash costs are projected to be approximately 80 percent of the total charges. Cumulative pre-tax savings from the restructuring are expected to be $120 to $140 by the end of 2017, and were $70 by the end of 2015. The restructuring is expected to impact all of our business segments and our organizations in all major geographies.

During 2015, $63 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the organization restructuring, including $23 recorded in cost of products sold and $40 recorded in marketing, research and general expenses, primarily for workforce reductions. A related benefit of $21 was recorded in provision for income taxes. During 2014, $133 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the organization restructuring, including $40 recorded in cost of products sold and $93 recorded in marketing, research and general expenses, primarily for workforce reductions. A related benefit of $38 was recorded in provision for income taxes. 

European Strategic Changes

In 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We exited the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divested or exited some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. The changes primarily affected our consumer businesses, with a modest impact on KCP. The impacted businesses generated annual net sales of approximately $0.5 billion and negligible operating profit. As a result of the restructuring activities, compared to 2012, annual net sales in 2014 and 2013 were decreased by $500 and $350, respectively.

Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes involved the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and streamlining of our administrative organization. The restructuring actions commenced in 2012 and were completed by December 31, 2014. The restructuring resulted in cumulative pre-tax charges of $413 ($338 after tax) over that period. 

For information on the charges by year, see Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Venezuela Charges

Effective December 31, 2015, we deconsolidated the assets and liabilities of our business in Venezuela from our consolidated balance sheet and moved to the cost method of accounting for our operations in that country. The change reflects the continued deterioration of conditions in the country, including a slowdown in the availability of foreign exchange, and resulted in an after tax charge of $102 in the fourth quarter of 2015. Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, we will no longer include the results of our Venezuelan business in our consolidated financial statements. We also recorded nondeductible charges of $45 and $462, and pre-tax charges of $36 (after-tax of $26), related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet in 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively. For information on the charges by year, see Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  22KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Unaudited Quarterly Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Historical market prices do not reflect any adjustment for the impact of the spin-off of our health care business completed on October 31, 2014.

Income (loss) from continuing operations was impacted by the $102 after tax charge ($108 pre-tax) to deconsolidate our Venezuelan operations and a charge of $49 related to prior years for uncertain tax positions for certain international operations in the fourth quarter of 2015, and charges related to pension settlements of $0.8 billion after tax ($1.4 billion pre-tax) primarily in the second quarter of 2015. Income (loss) from continuing operations was impacted by a nondeductible charge of $462 in the fourth quarter of 2014 for the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Provided by Operations

Cash provided by operations was $2.3 billion in 2015 compared to $2.8 billion in 2014. The decrease was driven by higher pension contributions in conjunction with the transfer of the pension benefit obligations to two insurance companies in the second quarter of 2015, the spin-off of the health care business in the fourth quarter of 2014 and increased operating working capital. Cash provided by operations of $2.8 billion in 2014 decreased compared to $3.0 billion in 2013 due to higher tax payments and transaction costs for the health care spin-off, partially offset by lower payments for restructuring items. 

  23KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

Obligations

The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Projected interest payments for variable-rate debt were calculated based on the outstanding principal amounts and prevailing market rates as of December 31, 2015.

•The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily superabsorbent materials, pulp and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations, based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.

•The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.

The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests.

•Potential estimated redemption price of $38 for the redeemable preferred securities related to our subsidiary in Central America as the timing of such redemption is unknown.

Investing

Our capital spending was $1.1 billion in 2015 and $1.0 billion in 2014. We expect capital spending to be $950 to $1,050 in 2016. 

Financing

In August 2015, we issued $250 aggregate principal amount of 2.15% notes due August 2020 and $300 aggregate principal amount of 3.05% notes due August 2025. Proceeds from the offering were used to repay $300 of notes due in August 2015 and to pay down a portion of our outstanding commercial paper balance.

In February 2015, we issued $250 aggregate principal amount of 1.85% notes due March 2020 and $250 aggregate principal amount of 2.65% notes due March 2025. Proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including pension contribution payments.

In 2015, at our election, we redeemed $200 of dealer remarketable securities. 

Our short-term debt, which consists of U.S. commercial paper with original maturities up to 90 days and/or other similar short-term debt issued by non-U.S. subsidiaries, was $1,071 as of December 31, 2015 (included in debt payable within one year on the Consolidated Balance Sheet). The average month-end balance of short-term debt for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $971 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 was $993. These short-term borrowings provide supplemental funding for supporting 

  24KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

our operations. The level of short-term debt generally fluctuates depending upon the amount of operating cash flows and the timing of customer receipts and payments for items such as pension contributions, dividends and income taxes.

At December 31, 2015, total debt was $7.8 billion compared to $7.0 billion at December 31, 2014.

We maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2019. This facility, currently unused, supports our commercial paper program, and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason.

We paid $1.3 billion in dividends in 2015. We repurchase shares of Kimberly-Clark common stock from time to time pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. During 2015, we repurchased 7.1 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $800 through a broker in the open market. In addition, we acquired the remaining interest in our subsidiary in Israel for $151. We are targeting full-year 2016 share repurchases of $600 to $900, subject to market conditions.

Management believes that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, payment of dividends, pension plan contributions and other needs for the foreseeable future. Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the United States to have a material effect on our overall business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances

Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, end-of-aisle or in-store product displays and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Rebate and promotion accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of customer sales and the promotion accruals also consider estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed, timing of promotional activities and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs. Generally, the estimates for consumer coupon costs are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. Our related accounting policies are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Employee Postretirement Benefits

Pension Plans

We have defined benefit pension plans in the United States and the United Kingdom (the "Principal Plans") and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all regular employees. Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. Effective January 2015, the U.S. pension plan was amended to include a lump-sum pension benefit payout option for certain plan participants. In addition, in April 2015, the U.S. pension plan completed the purchase of group annuity contracts that transferred to two insurance companies the pension benefit obligations totaling $2.5 billion for approximately 21,000 Kimberly-Clark retirees in the United States. As a result of these changes, we recognized pension settlement-related charges of $0.8 billion after tax ($1.4 billion pre-tax in other (income) and expense, net) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, mostly in the second quarter. During 2015, we made cash contributions of $484 to our pension trusts, of which $410 relates to the changes to the U.S. plan. Our related accounting policies and account balances are discussed in Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes in certain assumptions could significantly affect pension expense and the benefit obligations, particularly the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rates used to calculate the obligations:

•Long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the target 

  25KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. Pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets rather than a calculated value that averages gains and losses ("Calculated Value") over a period of years. Investment gains or losses represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the fair value of assets and the actual return based on the fair value of assets. The variance between actual and expected gains and losses on pension assets is recognized in pension expense more rapidly than it would be if a Calculated Value was used for plan assets.

As of December 31, 2015, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $1.4 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, including whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required. If the expected long-term rates of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, the impact on annual pension expense would not be material in 2016.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Other assumptions. There are a number of other assumptions involved in the calculation of pension expense and benefit obligations, primarily related to participant demographics and benefit elections. 

Pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $75 in 2016. Pension expense beyond 2016 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans.

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees have access to our unfunded healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. Changes in significant assumptions could affect the consolidated expense and benefit obligations, particularly the discount rates used to calculate the obligations and the healthcare cost trend rate:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Healthcare cost trend rate. The healthcare cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the healthcare marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace.

Our related accounting policies, account balances and the effects of a one percentage point change in the healthcare cost trend rate are discussed in Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments

As a global organization we are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally. Changes in certain assumptions related to income taxes could significantly affect consolidated results, particularly with regard to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the U.S. and uncertain tax positions:

•Deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We have recorded deferred tax assets related to, among other matters, income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards and have established 

  26KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our income tax related accounting policies, account balances and matters affecting income taxes are discussed in Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Legal Matters

See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on legal matters.

New Accounting Standards

See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of new accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Outlook

In 2016, we plan to continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies, which include a focus on targeted growth initiatives, innovation and brand building, cost savings programs and shareholder-friendly capital allocation. In 2016, we expect adjusted earnings per share in a range of $5.95 to $6.15. This excludes expected 2014 Organization Restructuring charges equivalent to $0.06 to $0.03. Our adjusted earnings per share guidance is based on the assumptions described below:

•Growth in sales volumes, net selling prices and product mix is expected to be in the combined 3 to 5 percent range.

•We expect net sales to be negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 5 to 6 percent. We also expect unfavorable foreign currency translation effects to negatively impact operating profit growth by 5 to 6 percent. Currency transaction effects are also anticipated to negatively impact operating profit.

•We anticipate the net impact of changes in commodity costs to be between deflation of $100 and $50 of inflation.

•We plan to achieve cost savings of at least $350 from our FORCE program, and at least $50 from the 2014 Organization Restructuring.

•We anticipate that advertising spending will be similar to, or up slightly, as a percentage of net sales to support targeted growth initiatives, brand building and innovation activities.

•We expect the adjusted effective tax rate to be between 30.5 and 32.5 percent.

  27KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

•Our share of net income from equity companies is expected to be similar to, or up somewhat, compared to 2015.

•We anticipate capital spending to be in a $950 to $1,050 range and share repurchases to total $600 to $900, subject to market conditions.

•We expect to contribute up to $100 to our defined benefit pension plans and to increase our quarterly dividend mid-single digits effective April 2016, subject to approval by the Board of Directors.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters contained in this report concerning the business outlook, including the anticipated costs, scope, timing and financial and other effects of the 2014 Organization Restructuring, the anticipated cost savings from the company’s FORCE program, cash flow and uses of cash, growth initiatives, innovations, marketing and other spending, cost savings and reductions, net sales, anticipated currency rates and exchange risks, raw material, energy and other input costs, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including dividends, share repurchases and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark. There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them. 

The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs and retail trade customer actions, as well as general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, could affect the realization of these estimates.

The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK