ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to risks such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. A variety of practices are employed to manage these risks, including operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of derivative instruments. Derivative instruments are used only for risk management purposes and not for speculation. All foreign currency derivative instruments are entered into with major financial institutions. Our credit exposure under these arrangements is limited to agreements with a positive fair value at the reporting date. Credit risk with respect to the counterparties is actively monitored but is not considered significant since these transactions are executed with a diversified group of financial institutions.

Presented below is a description of our risks (foreign currency risk and interest rate risk) together with a sensitivity analysis, performed annually, of each of these risks based on selected changes in market rates and prices. These analyses reflect management's view of changes which are reasonably possible to occur over a one-year period. Also included is a description of our commodity price risk.

Foreign Currency Risk 

A portion of our foreign currency risk is managed by the systematic use of foreign currency forward and swap contracts. The use of these instruments allows the management of transactional exposures to exchange rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure.

Foreign currency contracts and transactional exposures are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. An annual test is performed to quantify the effects that possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates would have on annual operating profit based on our foreign currency contracts and transactional exposures at the current year-end. The balance sheet effect is calculated by multiplying each affiliate's net monetary asset or liability position by a 10 percent change in the foreign currency exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar.

  28KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

As of December 31, 2015, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the prevailing market rates of foreign currencies involving balance sheet transactional exposures would not be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. This hypothetical loss on transactional exposures is based on the difference between the December 31, 2015 rates and the assumed rates. 

The translation of the balance sheets of non-U.S. operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Consequently, an annual test is performed to determine if changes in currency exchange rates would have a significant effect on the translation of the balance sheets of non-U.S. operations into U.S. dollars. These translation gains or losses are recorded as unrealized translation adjustments ("UTA") within stockholders' equity. The hypothetical change in UTA is calculated by multiplying the net assets of these non-U.S. operations by a 10 percent change in the currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2015, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the prevailing market rates of our foreign currency translation exposures would have reduced stockholders' equity by approximately $700. These hypothetical adjustments in UTA are based on the difference between the December 31, 2015 exchange rates and the assumed rates. In the view of management, the above UTA adjustments resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position because they would not affect our cash flow.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is managed through the maintenance of a portfolio of variable- and fixed-rate debt composed of short- and long-term instruments. The objective is to maintain a cost-effective mix that management deems appropriate. At December 31, 2015, the debt portfolio was composed of approximately 29 percent variable-rate debt and 71 percent fixed-rate debt.

Two separate tests are performed to determine whether changes in interest rates would have a significant effect on our financial position or future results of operations. Both tests are based on consolidated debt levels at the time of the test. The first test estimates the effect of interest rate changes on fixed-rate debt. Interest rate changes would result in increases or decreases in the market value of fixed-rate debt due to differences between the current market interest rates and the rates governing these instruments. With respect to fixed-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2015, a 10 percent decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of fixed-rate debt by about $186, which would not have a significant impact on our financial statements as we do not record debt at fair value. The second test estimates the potential effect on future pre-tax income that would result from increased interest rates applied to our current level of variable-rate debt. With respect to variable-rate debt, a 10 percent increase in interest rates would not have a material effect on the future results of operations or cash flows.

Commodity Price Risk

We are subject to commodity price risk, the most significant of which relates to the price of pulp. Selling prices of tissue products are influenced, in part, by the market price for pulp. As previously discussed under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," increases in pulp prices could adversely affect earnings if selling prices are not adjusted or if such adjustments significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.

Our energy, manufacturing and transportation costs are affected by various market factors including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions. As previously discussed under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," there can be no assurance we will be fully protected against substantial changes in the price or availability of energy sources. In addition, we are subject to price risk for utilities and manufacturing inputs, used in our manufacturing operations. Derivative instruments are used in accordance with our risk management policy to hedge a limited portion of the price risk.

  29KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2015 Annual Report

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA