ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.

Business Overview

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people get more out of life every day, where they live, learn, work and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, Levolor®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Aprica® and Baby Jogger®.

The Company is executing its Growth Game Plan, a strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The Company considers the changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan to be key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company. 

During 2014, the Company continued the cadence of consistent execution and delivery while simultaneously driving its change agenda to propel the Growth Game Plan into action. During 2014, the Company executed against the Strategic Phase of the Growth Game Plan, investing in core activity systems critical to the Company’s success, unlocking trapped capacity for growth through Project Renewal, investing in new capabilities and the Company’s brands for accelerated growth, and beginning to leverage an operating company structure to release the full potential of the business. The Company expects to continue to implement the Strategic Phase of the Growth Game Plan in 2015.

The Company is driving the Growth Game Plan into action and simplifying its structure through the execution of Project Renewal, making sharper portfolio choices and investing in new marketing and innovation to accelerate performance. In the Growth Game Plan operating model, the Company has two core activity systems, Development and Delivery, supported by three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and four winning capabilities in Design, Marketing & Insight, Supply Chain and Customer Development, all in service to drive accelerated performance in the Company’s five segments. The Company’s five segments and the key brands included in each segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2014, the Company completed the acquisitions of Ignite Holdings, LLC (“Ignite”) and Baby Jogger Holdings, Inc. (“Baby Jogger”) and acquired the assets of bubba brands, inc. (“bubba”). Ignite and bubba are designers and marketers of durable beverage containers under the brands Contigo, Avex® and bubba, and these businesses are included in the Company’s Home Solutions segment. Baby Jogger is a designer and marketer of premium infant and juvenile products focused on activity strollers and related accessories under the Baby Jogger brand and its City Mini® and City Select® sub-brands. Baby Jogger is included in the Company’s Baby & Parenting segment. 

Based on the Company’s strategy to allocate resources to its businesses relative to their growth potential and those with the greater right to win in the marketplace, the Company determined in 2014 that its Endicia® and Culinary electrics and retail businesses do not align with the Company’s long-term growth plans and has initiated plans to sell these businesses. The Company made a similar determination with respect to its Hardware and Teach businesses in 2013. Accordingly, the Company’s Endicia and Culinary 

 22
electrics and retail businesses were classified as discontinued operations based on the Company’s commitment to sell these businesses, and the results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The Endicia business was included in the Writing segment, and the Culinary businesses were included in the Home Solutions segment. The Endicia business provides on-line postage solutions. The Culinary electrics business sells kitchen electrics and accessories to retailers, and the retail business sells cookware products and accessories through outlet stores. During 2013, the Company divested its Hardware and Teach businesses. Accordingly, the results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations. These divested businesses consist of convenience, cabinet and window hardware (Bulldog, Ashland and Amerock, as well as the Levolor®-branded and private label drapery hardware business), manual paint applicators (Shur-line) and interactive teaching solutions (mimio and Headsprout). 

Market and Performance Overview

The Company operates in the consumer and commercial products markets, which are generally impacted by overall economic conditions in the regions in which the Company operates. The following is a summary of the Company’s progress in 2014 in driving the Growth Game Plan into action: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales is determined by applying a fixed exchange rate, calculated as the 12-month average in 2013, to the current and prior year local currency sales amounts, with the difference, after deducting the impact of acquisitions in the current year period, equal to changes in core sales, and the difference between the change in reported sales, excluding the effects of acquisitions, and the change in core sales being attributable to currency.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Gross margin was 38.5%. Pricing, productivity and segment mix more than offset the impact of inflation, negative foreign currency, the $12.0 million of costs associated with the Graco harness buckle recall and the adverse impact of the $5.2 million increase in Venezuela cost of products sold due to changes in Venezuela exchange rates.

•Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $81.0 million to $1,480.5 million, due primarily to increased advertising in support of the Company’s brands. The Company’s advertising strategy is to invest behind innovation, including new product launches, and in building brands, with a primary focus on advertising in North America and Latin America in the Company’s Win Bigger businesses. During 2014, the Company increased investments in advertising by $52.8 million, representing an incremental 90 basis points as a percentage of net sales. The Company’s investments for brand-building and consumer demand creation and commercialization activities during 2014 included the following:

•a new Sharpie® Neon Permanent Marker designed to inspire bold, vivid expression supported with “50Ways To Use Sharpie” advertising in advance of Back-To-School in the U.S. and Canada;

•advertising for a new line of Sharpie highlighters called Sharpie Clear View which have a unique, see-through tip for more precise highlighting;

•continued investment in InkJoy® advertising in North America and expansion to the Latin America and Asia Pacific markets; 

•an advertising campaign supporting the re-launch of Mr. Sketch® scented markers, a children’s classic first introduced in the U.S. in 1965; 

•advertising for Rubbermaid® Food Storage for LunchBlox and Easy Find Lids in the Home Solutions segment;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•advertising in North America and Australia to support Irwin® new product launches in Vise Grip and IMPACT Accessories in the Tools segment;

•the second wave of Big Bang Brazil, launching nine additional product categories and more than 700 SKUs of Irwin® tools, in addition to the 500 SKUs launched last year in Brazil; 

 23
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a New Distributor Model in North America, focused primarily in Tools and Commercial Products, building a structure that assigns relationship owners to key distributors, removing redundancies and simplifying the approach with distributors to sell a broader assortment of the Company’s products; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company plans to continue increasing advertising in support of its brands to drive growth.

•Continued execution of Project Renewal to simplify the business, reduce structural costs and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business by taking significant steps in implementing activities centered around Project Renewal’s five workstreams, resulting in $52.8 million of restructuring costs in 2014.

•Settled U.S. pension liabilities with plan assets for certain participants which resulted in a $65.4 million non-cash settlement charge in the fourth quarter of 2014.

•Realized a $45.6 million foreign exchange loss in 2014 for the Company’s Venezuelan operations, which includes a $38.7 million charge upon adoption of the SICAD I rate in the first quarter of 2014 and further losses as a result of declines in the SICAD I rate.

•Reported a 19.3% effective tax rate for 2014, compared to an effective tax rate of 22.4% for 2013. During 2014, the Company recognized discrete income tax benefits of $15.5 million related to the resolution of certain tax contingencies and $18.4 million of income tax benefits associated with the net reduction of valuation allowances on certain international deferred tax assets. In 2013, the Company recognized $7.9 million of discrete income tax benefits related to the resolution of various income tax contingencies and the expiration of various statutes of limitation. Additionally, the 2013 tax rate was impacted by $19.5 million of net tax benefits associated with the recognition of incremental deferred tax assets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Initiated plans to sell the Culinary electrics and retail businesses as well as the Endicia® online postage business. As a result, the results of operations of these businesses have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisitions

On September 4, 2014, the Company acquired Ignite for $312.9 million, which is net of $7.2 million of cash acquired. A portion of the purchase price was used to repay Ignite’s outstanding debt obligations at closing. Ignite is a designer and marketer of durable beverage containers in North America sold under the Contigo® and Avex® brands. For its most recently completed fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Ignite reported net sales of $102 million. 

On October 22, 2014, the Company acquired the assets of bubba for $82.9 million. bubba is a designer and marketer of durable beverage containers in North America. For its most recently completed fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, bubba reported net sales of $39 million.

The Ignite and bubba acquisitions give the Company’s Home Solutions segment access to additional channels in the on-the-go hydration and thermal bottle market in North America and fit with the Company’s strategy of accelerating growth by leveraging its capabilities across additional product categories, geographies and channels. 

 24
On December 15, 2014, the Company acquired Baby Jogger, a designer and marketer of premium infant and juvenile products focused on activity strollers and related accessories, for $206.5 million. Baby Jogger is headquartered in the U.S. and markets and sells its products in North America, Europe and Asia. For its most recently completed fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, Baby Jogger reported net sales of $76 million. The Baby Jogger acquisition gives the Baby & Parenting segment a premium brand and the opportunity to expand its geographic footprint. 

The results of operations of Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates of each business, which included net sales of $51.1 million, $13.4 million and $4.4 million for Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger, respectively.

Key Initiatives

Project Renewal

In October 2011, the Company launched Project Renewal, a program designed to reduce complexity in the organization and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business, funded by a reduction in structural SG&A costs. Project Renewal is designed to simplify and align the business around two key activities — Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery. Project Renewal encompasses projects centered around five workstreams:

•Organizational Simplification: The Company has de-layered its top structure and further consolidated its businesses from nine GBUs to five business segments.

•EMEA Simplification: The Company is focusing its resources on fewer products and countries, while simplifying go-to-market, delivery and back office support structures.

•Best Cost Finance: The Company is delivering a simplified approach to decision support, transaction processing and information management by leveraging SAP and the streamlined business segments to align resources with the Growth Game Plan. 

•Best Cost Back Office: The Company is driving “One Newell Rubbermaid” efficiencies in customer and consumer services and sourcing functions. 

•Supply Chain Footprint: The Company is further optimizing manufacturing and distribution facilities across its global supply chain. 

Through Project Renewal, the Company has been realigned from a holding company comprised of 13 GBUs, each with its own support structure, to an operating company centered around four primary capabilities: Design; Marketing & Insight; Supply Chain; and Customer Development. The Company has developed centers of excellence in each of these capabilities and has realigned its back office support structure functions (Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal) to support the four primary capabilities. This realignment has led to efficiencies and cost reductions, allowing the Company to increase investments in its brands and capabilities. In addition, through Project Renewal, the Company has simplified its go-to-market and back office structures in EMEA which has resulted in significant Project Renewal costs in the EMEA region in years prior to 2014. As a result, EMEA’s reported operating margin in 2014 was 12.0%, a significant improvement compared to prior years.

In October 2014, the Company announced an expansion of Project Renewal focused on the Organizational Simplification and Supply Chain workstreams. The expansion of Project Renewal is designed to release costs in the areas of procurement, manufacturing and distribution, and through further overhead reduction. The expansion of Project Renewal will focus on significantly reducing the complexity in the business and simplifying the Company’s approach to bringing products and programs to market. The expansion of Project Renewal is expected to generate incremental annualized cost savings of approximately $200 million when fully implemented by the end of 2017. The Company expects to incur incremental costs of approximately $200 million over the same period, of which $190 million are expected to be cash costs.

By the end of 2017, the Company expects Project Renewal to deliver from $470 to $525 million of cumulative annualized savings. The Company is on track to realize annualized cost savings from the first two phases of Project Renewal of approximately $270 to $325 million by the middle of 2015, having realized $266 million of annualized cost savings through December 31, 2014. The majority of these savings have been, and future savings from Project Renewal initiatives are expected to be, reinvested in the business to strengthen brand building and selling capabilities. Cumulative costs of the expanded Project Renewal are expected to be $540 to $575 million pretax, with cash costs of $510 to $540 million. Approximately 65% to 75% of the total Project Renewal costs are expected to be restructuring costs, a majority of which are expected to be employee-related cash costs, including severance, retirement and other termination benefits and costs. 

Through December 31, 2014, the Company had incurred $235 million and $69 million of restructuring and restructuring-related costs, respectively. Restructuring-related costs represent certain organizational change implementation costs, including advisory 

 25
and consulting costs, and incremental cost of products sold and SG&A expenses associated with the implementation of Project Renewal. The majority of the restructuring costs represent employee-related cash costs, including severance, retirement and other termination benefits and costs. The Company expects approximately 2,250 employees will be impacted as a result of initiatives implemented in the first two phases of Project Renewal, and through December 31, 2014, the Company estimates it has reduced its headcount by approximately 2,100 employees.

The following table summarizes the estimated costs and savings relating to Project Renewal, as well as the actual results through December 31, 2014 (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2014, the Company has continued to execute existing projects as well as initiate new activities relating to Project Renewal as follows:

•Completed the restructuring of the Development organization as part of the Organizational Simplification workstream, which includes the consolidation and relocation of its design and innovation capabilities into a new center of excellence in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and the consolidation of the marketing function into a global center of excellence. 

•The ongoing implementation of the EMEA Simplification workstream, which includes projects aimed at refocusing the region on profitable growth, including the closure, consolidation and/or relocation of certain manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, customer support and sales and administrative offices. In 2014, the Company completed the closures of a manufacturing facility and a distribution center in EMEA. As part of the EMEA Simplification workstream, the Company has also exited certain markets and product lines, as follows:

•Exited direct sales in over 50 of the 120 countries and territories that the EMEA region serves;

•Discontinued the Baby & Parenting business in about 19 countries; 

•Discontinued several lines of Baby & Parenting products; and

•Exited the custom-logo Fine Writing business.

The Company’s sales were adversely impacted by approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as a result of these geographic and product line exits. 

•The implementation of projects to consolidate the Company’s North American customer and consumer service operations.

•Undertaking an evaluation of the Company’s overhead structure, supply chain organization and processes, and pricing structure to optimize and transform processes, simplify the organization and reduce costs.

•The implementation of the Best Cost Finance workstream by consolidating and realigning its shared services and decision support capabilities.

•The continued execution of projects to streamline the three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and to align these functions with the new operating structure.

•The ongoing reconfiguration and consolidation of the Company’s manufacturing footprint and distribution centers to reduce overhead, improve operational efficiencies and better utilize existing assets, including the closure of a distribution center and the initiation of a project to close a manufacturing facility in North America.

One Newell Rubbermaid

The Company strives to leverage common business activities and best practices to build functional capabilities and to build one common culture of shared values with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Through this initiative, the Company has established regional shared services centers to leverage nonmarket-facing functional capabilities to reduce costs. In addition, the Company is expanding its focus on leveraging common business activities and best practices by reorganizing the business around two of the critical elements of the Growth Game Plan — Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery, enhancing its Customer Development and Global Supply Chain organizations and consolidating activities into centers of excellence for design and innovation capabilities and marketing capabilities.

 26
The Company is also migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform in a phased, multi-year rollout. SAP is expected to enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently. Substantially all of the Company’s North American, Latin American and European operations are live on SAP, and the Company has initiated plans to implement SAP in its Asia Pacific operations. 

Foreign Currency - Venezuela

The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes (“Bolivars”) into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. The Company’s Venezuelan operations are primarily included in the Company’s Writing segment. The Company generally imports raw materials into Venezuela and manufactures writing instruments locally. The Company’s Venezuelan operations also import components and finished goods. Generally, purchases of imported products are denominated in U.S. Dollars. The Company has historically used various means, including price increases and productivity initiatives, to offset increased costs due to the impacts of high inflation and currency devaluations. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company’s Venezuelan operations generated 1.4% or less of consolidated net sales and 5.4% or less of operating income. 

In 2010, the Venezuelan government introduced a newly regulated foreign currency exchange system, Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (“SITME”). Foreign currency exchange through SITME was allowed within a specified band of 4.5 to 5.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar, but most of the exchanges have been executed at the rate of 5.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar. Since the introduction of SITME in June 2010, the Venezuelan government held the rate constant at 5.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar until February 2013. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Bolivar, resulting in the exchange rate declining from 5.3 to 6.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar. The Company recorded an $11.1 million foreign exchange loss in 2013 as a result of the rate declining from 5.3 to 6.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar.

Beginning in July 2013, the Venezuelan government authorized certain companies that operate in designated industry sectors to exchange a limited volume of Bolivars for U.S. Dollars at a bid rate established via weekly auctions under a system referred to as “SICAD I.” During the first quarter of 2014, the government expanded the types of transactions that may be subject to the weekly SICAD I auction rate while retaining the official rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar and introduced another currency exchange mechanism (“SICAD II”). The official exchange rate for settling certain transactions through the National Center of Foreign Trade (“CENCOEX”), including imports of essential goods, remains at 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. As of December 31, 2014, the SICAD I auction rate was 12.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, and the SICAD II rate was 50.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. The Company continues to believe that transactions for imports of essential goods, such as certain raw materials and finished goods (primarily in the Writing segment), may be settled at the official exchange rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, and the Company has continued to receive authorizations to import product and to receive cash for vendor payments at this rate. During 2014, the Company was awarded $7.5 million and $16.0 million via the CENCOEX and SICAD I exchange mechanisms, respectively, which were (or will be) used by the Venezuela business to pay third party and intercompany vendors. The Company did not receive any U.S. Dollars via SICAD II in 2014.

In March 2014, the Company analyzed the multiple rates currently available and the Company’s estimates of the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled and dividends can be paid. Based on this analysis, the Company determined as of March 31, 2014 that the SICAD I rate was the most appropriate rate to use prospectively for remeasurement rather than the CENCOEX rate, which the Company used up to March 31, 2014. As a result, the Company recorded net charges of $45.6 million in 2014, based on changes in the exchange rate applicable for remeasuring the net monetary assets of the Company’s Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars. In addition, the Company’s 2014 reported net sales and operating income were adversely impacted by $42 million and $24 million, respectively, due solely to the use of the SICAD I rate for 2014 rather than the CENCOEX rate, which includes the adverse impact on gross margins attributable to higher costs of inventory due to the use of the SICAD I rate and the increased costs of importing raw materials and finished goods. 

The results of the Company’s Venezuelan operations have been included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented, as the Company has been able to exchange Bolivars for a sufficient amount of U.S. Dollars to fund its Venezuelan operations’ U.S. Dollar purchases and has had the ability to exercise control over a majority of the operating decisions of its Venezuelan business. 

As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had approximately $55.8 million of net monetary assets denominated in Bolivars at the rate of 12.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, and as a result, a 10% increase (decrease) in the applicable exchange rate would result in an estimated pretax charge (benefit) of approximately $6 million. On an ongoing basis, excluding the impacts of any actions management might otherwise take in response to a change in exchange rates, such as raising or decreasing prices, a 10% increase (decrease) in the exchange rate would unfavorably (favorably) impact annual net sales and operating income by an estimated $8 million and $6 million, respectively. Although the SICAD II rate was no longer quoted beginning in February 

 27
2015, were the Company to have adopted the SICAD II rate for remeasurement as of December 31, 2014, the Company would have been required to record a pretax charge of $42.4 million associated with the decline in value of the net monetary assets of the Company’s Venezuelan operations denominated in Bolivars. In addition, annual sales would have been adversely affected by $59.9 million compared to the use of the SICAD I rate, and the Company would generate operating losses in Venezuela absent any price increases or other actions the Company may implement. 

In February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced changes in its foreign currency exchange system. The preferential rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar is expected to continue to be made available for purchases of essential goods, and the existing SICAD I rate remains at 12.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar as of February 2015. The SICAD II market has been eliminated, and a new alternative currency market, the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (“SIMADI”) has been created.The SIMADI market is intended to have a floating exchange rate determined by market participants. SIMADI became operational with an initial exchange rate of approximately 170 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. While the Company will continue to assess the impact, if any, of the changes to the Venezuela foreign currency exchange system, if the Company is unable to obtain sufficient U.S. Dollars from CENCOEX or the SICAD I markets to fund its requirements for imported goods and instead needs to access the SIMADI market, it would significantly impact the Company’s Venezuelan operations which would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations.

As part of the changes implemented in the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government also issued a new Law on Fair Pricing, establishing a maximum profit margin of 30%. In addition, new regulations will require the Company to identify the ultimate retail price to consumers on products it sells to distributors in Venezuela in 2015, which could adversely affect the prices the Company charges its distributor customers. Laws and regulations limit the Company’s ability to implement future price increases, could result in the reduction of prices with respect to certain products categories and result in fines for practices deemed to be in violation of the laws and regulations. The impacts of any future pricing regulations are not included in the estimated ongoing impacts outlined above. Price controls generally may affect products the Company markets and sells in Venezuela. 

The Company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in Venezuela; however, future devaluations would adversely impact the Company’s future financial results. Any change in the rate would not impact reported changes in core sales, which exclude the impact of foreign currency. 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company believes the selected data and the percentage relationship between net sales and major categories in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are important in evaluating the Company’s operations. The following table sets forth items from the Consolidated Statements of Operations as reported and as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 28
Results of Operations — 2014 vs. 2013

Net sales for 2014 were $5,727.0 million, representing an increase of $120.0 million, or 2.1%, from $5,607.0 million for 2013. Core sales increased 3.0%, as foreign currency had the effect of decreasing net sales by 2.1% , while the acquisitions had the effect of increasing net sales by 1.2%. The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in consolidated net sales for 2014 as compared to 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales in the Company’s North American and international businesses grew 2.1% and 5.4%, respectively. Latin America led with 22.6% core sales growth driven by strong innovation and pricing in the Writing segment, particularly in Venezuela, and strong innovation and increased distribution in the Tools segment in Brazil. North America reported modest core sales growth of 2.1%, as the Win Bigger businesses generated solid growth that was partially offset by declines in Home Solutions due to deemphasizing certain lower margin Rubbermaid product lines. Baby & Parenting core sales were flat in North America, as the Graco harness buckle recall impacted sales growth. Asia Pacific core sales growth of 0.4% was attributable to core sales growth across the Win Bigger businesses, partially offset by declines in Baby & Parenting primarily as a result of increased competition in Japan. EMEA had a core sales decline of 1.3% as a result of planned product and geographic exits, continued macroeconomic challenges in Western Europe and challenging market conditions in Eastern Europe. The Company’s core sales growth in 2014 was favorably impacted by additional sell-in in advance of advertising and merchandising support planned for 2015.

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2014 was 38.5%, or $2,203.4 million, an increase of 60 basis points compared to the prior year. Pricing, productivity and segment and product mix more than offset the impact of inflation, negative foreign currency, the $12.0 million of costs associated with the Graco harness buckle recall and the adverse impact of the $5.2 million increase in Venezuela cost of products sold due to changes in Venezuela exchange rates.

SG&A expenses for 2014 were 25.9% of net sales, or $1,480.5 million, versus 25.0% of net sales, or $1,399.5 million, for 2013. During 2014, the Company increased investments in advertising across all segments by $52.8 million, representing an incremental 90 basis points as a percentage of net sales. Continued investment in selling and e-commerce capabilities in North America and Latin America also contributed to the increase. The increase was also driven by an increase in organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs and advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives, which increased from $23.8 million in 2013 to $41.9 million in 2014, to support efforts to improve selling, pricing and supply chain capabilities. SG&A expenses in 2014 also include $5.5 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with the Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger acquisitions and $3.0 million of costs relating to the Graco harness buckle recall. These increases in SG&A were partially offset by Project Renewal cost savings.

In 2014, the Company offered certain U.S. pension plan participants who have deferred vested benefits under the Company’s U.S. pension plan the opportunity to make a one-time election to receive a lump sum distribution of the present value of their benefits. Based on participants that accepted the offer, the Company paid $98.6 million of lump sum distributions from plan assets, which resulted in a $65.4 million non-cash settlement charge during the fourth quarter of 2014. 

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $52.8 million and $110.3 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. The year-over-year decrease in restructuring costs is primarily due to the significant costs incurred in 2013 associated with the implementation of restructuring plans and initiatives under Project Renewal in Europe as part of the EMEA Simplification workstream. The restructuring costs in 2014 primarily related to Project Renewal and consisted of $7.5 million of facility and other exit costs, including impairments, $22.9 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs and $22.4 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. The restructuring costs in 2013 primarily relate to Project Renewal and consisted of $4.9 million for facility and other exits, including asset impairment costs; $89.4 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs; and $16.0 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Operating income for 2014 was 10.6% of net sales, or $604.7 million, versus 11.0% of net sales, or $615.1 million, for 2013. Gross margin expansion was more than offset by the increased investment in brands and capabilities and the non-cash pension settlement charge of $65.4 million. 

Net nonoperating expenses for 2014 were $142.6 million versus $78.8 million for 2013. Interest expense for 2014 was $60.4 million, an increase of $0.1 million from $60.3 million for 2013, as the impact of higher average debt levels was offset by a lower average interest rate and interest income earned on foreign cash balances. The increase in nonoperating expenses during 2014 was 

 29
driven by the negative impact of the hyperinflationary accounting for the Company’s Venezuelan operations compared to 2013, which resulted in the Company recognizing $45.6 million of charges in 2014 based on the decline in value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars compared to $11.1 million of charges in 2013, as well as the $33.2 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with the repayment of all outstanding 2015 Notes and 10.6% 2019 Notes and a portion of the 2020 Notes. 

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 19.3% and 22.4% for 2014 and 2013, respectively. During 2014, the Company recognized discrete income tax benefits of $15.5 million related to the resolution of certain tax contingencies and $18.4 million of net income tax benefits associated with the reduction of valuation allowances on certain international deferred tax assets. The tax rate for 2013 was impacted by $7.9 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of various income tax contingencies and the expiration of various statutes of limitation. Additionally, the 2013 tax rate was impacted by $19.5 million of net tax benefits associated with the recognition of incremental deferred tax assets. The tax rates for both 2014 and 2013 were impacted by the geographical mix in earnings.

Income from discontinued operations was $4.8 million for 2014 compared to $58.3 million for 2013. Income from discontinued operations during 2014 and 2013 relates to the Company’s Hardware, Teach, Endicia and Culinary electrics and retail businesses. The Company’s Hardware and Teach businesses were sold during 2013, which resulted in a net gain (including impairment charges) of $58.9 million in 2013. Income (loss) from discontinued operations was $1.4 million and $(0.6) million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Results of Operations — 2013 vs. 2012

Net sales for 2013 were $5,607.0 million, representing an increase of $98.5 million, or 1.8%, from $5,508.5 million for 2012. The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in consolidated net sales for 2013 as compared to 2012 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Geographically, the core sales growth was driven by double-digit core sales growth in Latin America and low-single-digit core sales growth in North America. The growth in these markets was partially offset by declines in Europe and in the Asia Pacific region. Core sales in the Company’s North American and international businesses increased 2.7% and 3.6%, respectively. In North America, the 2.7% core sales growth was driven by growth in the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments. Core sales in the Company’s Latin American businesses increased 26.6%, including a core sales increase in the Writing segment driven by increased volumes and price increases implemented in response to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar, as well as a core sales increase in the Tools segment driven by growth in Mexico and Brazil. Core sales in Europe declined 3.3%, reflecting the ongoing macroeconomic challenges in Western Europe. In the Asia Pacific region, core sales declined 2.4% driven by a decline in Fine Writing due to the transitioning of the distribution model in China to better align inventory levels with consumer level point-of-sale and an overall slowdown in the category. 

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2013 was 37.9%, or $2,124.9 million. Productivity was offset by inflation and unfavorable mix for the year. The unfavorable mix resulted from core sales growth being driven by segments and regions with gross margins that are lower than the Company’s average gross margin. 

SG&A expenses for 2013 were 25.0% of net sales, or $1,399.5 million, versus 25.5% of net sales, or $1,403.5 million, for 2012. During 2013, the Company invested an incremental $15.5 million in brand-building activities, including advertising and promotion, to support new products, marketing initiatives, new market entries and global expansion. The increase in SG&A costs associated with brand-building activities was offset by the impacts of structural cost savings initiatives and ongoing restructuring projects, foreign currency and lower restructuring-related costs. In 2013, restructuring-related and organizational change implementation costs associated with Project Renewal were $23.8 million, which compared to restructuring-related costs for Project Renewal and the European Transformation Plan of $31.9 million in 2012. 

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $110.3 million and $52.9 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively. The year-over-year increase in restructuring costs is primarily due to the implementation of restructuring plans and initiatives under Project Renewal in Europe in 2013 as part of the EMEA Simplification workstream. The restructuring costs in 2013 primarily relate to Project Renewal and consisted of $4.9 million for facility and other exits, including asset impairment costs; $89.4 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs; and $16.0 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. The restructuring costs in 2012 relate to Project Renewal and the European Transformation Plan and consisted of a net benefit of $(0.7) million for facility and other exits, including asset impairment costs; $41.9 million of 

 30
employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs; and $11.7 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Operating income for 2013 was 11.0% of net sales, or $615.1 million, versus 11.6% of net sales, or $637.7 million for 2012. The decrease in operating margin was primarily due to the increase in restructuring costs.

Net nonoperating expenses for 2013 were $78.8 million versus $85.7 million for 2012. Interest expense for 2013 was $60.3 million, a decrease of $15.8 million from $76.1 million for 2012, due to lower average debt levels and lower average interest rates. In February 2013, the exchange rate for Venezuelan Bolivars declined to 6.3 Bolivars to U.S. Dollar, and as a result, the Company recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of $11.1 million to reduce the value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars. During 2013, the Company recognized foreign exchange transactional losses of $9.9 million, excluding the impact of the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar, compared to foreign exchange gains of $2.6 million for 2012, as certain of the Company’s primary currencies generally depreciated against the U.S. Dollar during 2013 compared to appreciating in 2012. Losses related to extinguishments of debt of $10.9 million in 2012 represent the costs associated with the early retirement of the junior convertible subordinated debentures underlying the quarterly income preferred securities and the 5.5% Senior Notes due April 2013 (the “2013 Notes”).

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 22.4% and 29.3% for 2013 and 2012, respectively, resulting in $120.0 million and $161.5 million of expense for 2013 and 2012, respectively. The tax rate for 2013 was impacted by the geographical mix in earnings and $7.9 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of various income tax contingencies and the expiration of various statutes of limitation. Additionally, the 2013 tax rate was impacted by $19.5 million of net tax benefits associated with the recognition of incremental deferred tax assets. The tax rate for 2012 was adversely impacted by $23.1 million of income tax expense associated with incremental tax contingencies and the expiration of various statutes of limitation.

The income from discontinued operations was $58.3 million for 2013 compared to $10.8 million for 2012. Income from discontinued operations during 2013 and 2012 primarily relates to the Company’s Hardware, Teach, Endicia and Culinary electrics and retail businesses. The Hardware and Teach businesses were sold during 2013. (Loss) income from discontinued operations was $(0.6) million and $9.1 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively. The sale of the Hardware and Teach businesses resulted in a net gain (including impairment charges) of $58.9 million in 2013, and the settlement of the sale of the hand torch and solder business resulted in a net gain of $1.7 million in 2012. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Business Segment Operating Results:

2014 vs. 2013 Business Segment Operating Results

Net sales by segment were as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in net sales in each segment for 2014 as compared to 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 31
Operating income (loss) by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Writing

Net sales for 2014 were $1,708.9 million, an increase of $55.3 million, or 3.3%, from $1,653.6 million for 2013. Core sales increased 7.8%, driven by strong innovation, positive pricing and advertising and merchandising support. Cores sales grew across all regions and was led by Latin America with strong double-digit growth as a result of pricing and volume growth. North America core sales grew mid-single digits as a result of increased advertising and strong Back-To-School growth. EMEA generated low-single-digit core sales growth despite the challenging economic environment and product exits in Fine Writing. Asia Pacific core sales grew low single digits due to pricing and growth in China and Southeast Asia. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 4.5% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $416.6 million, or 24.4% of net sales, an increase of $34.4 million, or 9.0%, from $382.2 million, or 23.1% of net sales, for 2013. The 130 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily attributable to pricing, mix, strong productivity and overhead cost management, partially offset by the increased cost of products sold attributable to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and increased advertising. The increase in advertising resulted in SG&A increasing 60 basis points as a percentage of sales.

Home Solutions

Net sales for 2014 were $1,575.4 million, an increase of $15.1 million, or 1.0%, from $1,560.3 million for 2013. Core sales decreased 2.5% primarily due to deemphasizing certain lower margin Rubbermaid product lines. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.6% on net sales, while the impact of the Ignite and bubba acquisitions had a positive impact of 4.1% on net sales. 

Operating income for 2014 was $196.0 million, or 12.4% of net sales, a decrease of $17.1 million, or 8.0%, from $213.1 million, or 13.7% of net sales, for 2013. The 130 basis point operating margin decline reflects increased advertising, the effects of input cost inflation and the deleveraging effect on operating margins of lower sales volumes, partially offset by pricing, productivity and overhead cost management. The more efficient management of overhead costs was more than offset by the deleveraging effect, acquisition and integration costs, and increased advertising, resulting in SG&A increasing 110 basis points as a percentage of sales.

Tools

Net sales for 2014 were $852.2 million, an increase of $34.3 million, or 4.2%, from $817.9 million for 2013. Core sales increased 6.3%. Cores sales grew across all regions led by double-digit core sales growth in Latin America related to strong innovation, new distribution and pricing. The Tools segment generated mid-single-digit core sales growth in North America, as strong volume growth on Lenox® was partially offset by the impact of a slower than expected transition of an Irwin distribution center in 2014. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 2.1% on net sales.

 32
Operating income for 2014 was $94.6 million, or 11.1% of net sales, an increase of $26.3 million, or 38.5%, from $68.3 million, or 8.4% of net sales, for 2013. The 270 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily attributable to greater operating leverage from the strong sales growth, gross margin expansion behind improved mix, Project Renewal savings, significant brand support in 2013 in Brazil for product launches and a reduction in advertising in North America versus last year. The operating leverage, Project Renewal savings and reduced brand support in Brazil and North America contributed to SG&A decreasing 270 basis points as a percentage of sales.

Commercial Products

Net sales for 2014 were $837.1 million, an increase of $51.2 million, or 6.5%, from $785.9 million for 2013. Core sales increased 7.2%, primarily driven by innovation, pricing, new distribution in Brazil and China and volume growth in all regions. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.7% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $101.3 million, or 12.1% of net sales, an increase of $18.8 million, or 22.8%, from $82.5 million, or 10.5% of net sales, for 2013. The 160 basis point increase in operating margin reflects the benefits of improved operating leverage, pricing, mix and strong productivity, partially offset by input cost inflation and increased advertising. The improved operating leverage contributed to SG&A declining 90 basis points as a percentage of sales. 

Baby & Parenting

Net sales for 2014 were $753.4 million, a decrease of $35.9 million, or 4.5%, from $789.3 million for 2013. Core sales decreased 4.0%, primarily attributable to planned geographic exits in EMEA, difficult market conditions in Eastern Europe, competitive pressures in Japan and the negative impact of the Graco harness buckle recall in the U.S. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 1.1% on net sales, while the acquisition of Baby Jogger had a positive effect of 0.6% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $40.6 million, or 5.4% of net sales, a decrease of $50.6 million, or 55.5%, from $91.2 million, or 11.6% of net sales, for 2013. The 620 basis point decrease in operating margin is largely attributable to the $15.0 million of costs associated with the recall, geographic mix, transactional foreign currency, increased advertising and promotion in North America and the deleveraging impact of lower sales, partially offset by pricing. The deleveraging impact of lower sales, increased advertising, acquisition and integration costs and SG&A costs associated with administering and supporting the recall contributed to SG&A increasing 470 basis points as a percentage of sales.

2013 vs. 2012 Business Segment Operating Results

Net sales by segment were as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in net sales in each segment for 2013 as compared to 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 33
Operating income (loss) by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For 2013, includes restructuring-related costs associated with Project Renewal of $0.3 million and $0.8 million attributable to the Writing

and Baby & Parenting segments, respectively.

(2) For 2012, includes organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs associated with Project Renewal of $1.2 million and $4.9 million attributable to the Writing and Home Solutions segments, respectively. 

(3) Includes $23.8 million and $4.1 million of organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs associated with Project Renewal for 2013 and 2012, respectively. Includes restructuring-related costs of $24.3 million for 2012 associated with the European Transformation Plan. 

Writing

Net sales for 2013 were $1,653.6 million, a decrease of $28.4 million, or 1.7%, from $1,682.0 million for 2012. Core sales decreased 0.5%, as a strong back-to-school season in North America and double-digit core sales growth in Latin America due to the rollout of new products, strong back-to-school sell-in, and price increases implemented in response to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar were more than offset by a challenging macroeconomic environment in Western Europe, declines in Fine Writing in Asia due to the transitioning of the distribution model in China and an overall slowdown in the category in that region, and declines in the office superstore channel in the U.S. Excluding the impacts of currency, the segment’s North American businesses reported a core sales decline of 3.3% while the segment’s international businesses reported a core sales increase of 2.8%. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 1.2% on net sales.

Operating income for 2013 was $382.2 million, or 23.1% of net sales, an increase of $50.6 million, or 15.3%, from $331.6 million or 19.7% of net sales, for 2012. The 340 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily attributable to gross margin expansion, as net pricing and productivity more than offset input cost inflation. SG&A costs as a percentage of net sales decreased 60 basis points, as the Company invested additional amounts in strategic SG&A in 2012 to support the launches of Paper Mate® InkJoy® and the Parker® Ingenuity Collection.

Home Solutions

Net sales for 2013 were $1,560.3 million, an increase of $35.7 million, or 2.3%, from $1,524.6 million for 2012. Core sales increased 2.7%, led by mid-single-digit growth in the Rubbermaid Consumer business due to focused merchandising activities, successful new product launches from Levolor, and distribution gains from Calphalon. Excluding the impacts of currency, sales at the segment’s North American and international businesses increased 2.7% and 6.2%, respectively. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.4% on net sales.

Operating income for 2013 was $213.1 million, or 13.7% of net sales, an increase of $14.8 million, or 7.5%, from $198.3 million, or 13.0% of net sales, for 2012. The 70 basis point operating margin improvement is primarily attributable to a 120 basis point reduction in SG&A costs as a percentage of net sales due to lower strategic spend in 2013, leverage of fixed costs with an increase in net sales, and Project Renewal-driven structural SG&A cost reductions. The improvement in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was slightly offset by less favorable mix and inflation. 

Tools

Net sales for 2013 were $817.9 million, an increase of $11.8 million, or 1.5%, from $806.1 million for 2012. Core sales increased 3.4% mainly driven by double-digit growth in Latin America attributable to the success of the expanded product offering in Brazil and continued investment in selling capabilities. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency, core sales declines of 1.3% at the segment’s North American businesses were more than offset by a 10.2% core sales increase in the segment’s international businesses. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 1.9% on net sales.

Operating income for 2013 was $68.3 million, or 8.4% of net sales, a decrease of $41.5 million, or 37.8%, from $109.8 million, or 13.6% of net sales, for 2012. The 520 basis point decrease in operating margin is primarily attributable to a 380 basis point 

 34
increase in SG&A costs as a percentage of net sales due to higher brand-building investments, including increased advertising and promotion expenses, and sustained investments in selling and marketing capabilities in certain regions and businesses. 

Commercial Products

Net sales for 2013 were $785.9 million, an increase of $26.2 million, or 3.4%, from $759.7 million for 2012. Core sales increased 3.9%, primarily driven by strong volume growth in both North America and Latin America attributable to programming and new product offerings. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency, sales at the segment’s North American and international businesses increased 3.3% and 8.2%, respectively. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.5% on net sales.

Operating income for 2013 was $82.5 million, or 10.5% of net sales, a decrease of $10.4 million, or 11.2%, from $92.9 million, or 12.2% of net sales, for 2012. The 170 basis point decrease in operating margin is attributable to higher promotional activity and increased brand investments, as SG&A increased 150 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Baby & Parenting

Net sales for 2013 were $789.3 million, an increase of $53.2 million, or 7.2%, from $736.1 million for 2012. Core sales increased 10.2%, primarily attributable to market share gains, increased distribution and innovative new products in North America. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency, sales at the segment’s North American businesses increased 19.2%, while sales at the segment’s international businesses decreased 3.7%. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 3.0% on net sales.

Operating income for 2013 was $91.2 million, or 11.6% of net sales, an increase of $18.5 million, or 25.4%, from $72.7 million, or 9.9% of net sales, for 2012. The 170 basis point increase in operating margin is largely attributable to Project Renewal cost savings and increased leverage, as SG&A decreased 410 basis points as a percentage of net sales. The improvement in operating margin was slightly offset by unfavorable mix and transactional foreign currency. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in explaining its results and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company’s management believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful since these measures (a) permit users of the financial information to view the Company’s performance using the same tools that management uses to evaluate the Company’s past performance, reportable business segments and prospects for future performance and (b) determine certain elements of management’s incentive compensation.

The Company’s management believes that core sales is useful because it demonstrates the effect of foreign currency and acquisitions on reported sales. Core sales is determined by applying a fixed exchange rate, calculated as the 12-month average in the prior year, to the current and prior year local currency sales amounts (excluding sales in the current year associated with acquisitions completed in the preceding twelve months), with the difference equal to changes in core sales, and the difference between the changes in reported sales and the changes in core sales being attributable to currency. The Company uses core sales as one of the three performance criteria in its management cash bonus plan. 

While the Company believes that non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.

The following table provides a reconciliation of changes in core sales to changes in reported net sales by geographic region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 35
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliations of changes in core sales to changes in reported net sales on a consolidated basis and by segment are provided earlier in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows 

Cash and cash equivalents (decreased) increased as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the effects of acquisitions and divestitures. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement differ from changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheets.

Sources

Historically, the Company’s primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have included cash provided by operations, proceeds from divestitures, issuance of debt, and use of available borrowing facilities.

Cash provided by operating activities for 2014 was $634.1 million compared to $605.2 million for 2013. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily due to the impact of the following items:

•a $100.0 million contribution to the Company’s primary U.S. pension plan made in 2013;

•a $33.4 million year-over-year decrease in cash used to build inventories in 2014 compared to 2013, partially attributable to the higher inventory builds in 2013 to support back-half 2013 promotions;

•a $28.3 million year-over-year increase in cash provided by accounts payable primarily attributable to the later timing of purchases in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013; and

•a $21.5 million year-over-year decline in cash paid for income taxes; 

partially offset by

•a $121.9 million year-over-year increase in cash used for accounts receivable due to the later timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013; 

•a $19.1 million year-over-year increase in organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with Project Renewal and advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives; and

•$15.0 million in costs in 2014 associated with the harness buckle recall. 

Cash provided by operating activities for 2013 was $605.2 million compared to $618.5 million for 2012. The decline in operating cash flow was due to the impact of the following items:

•a $51.3 million year-over-year increase in pension contributions to the Company’s U.S. pension plan;

•a $69.3 million year-over-year use of cash to build inventories to support service levels and sales growth;

•a $26.3 million increase in cash paid for restructuring activities; and

•a $27.0 million increase in the annual incentive compensation payout;

 36
partially offset by

•improved profitability in 2013 compared to 2012;

•an $82.2 million year-over-year increase in collections of accounts receivable due to the timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2012; and

•a $43.6 million year-over-year decline in cash paid for interest.

During 2014, the Company received net proceeds of $217.3 million on its short-term borrowing arrangements compared to net payments of $35.8 million related to these borrowing arrangements in 2013. The Company’s short-term borrowings, which include commercial paper and the receivables financing facility, were $390.7 million at December 31, 2014 compared to $174.0 million at December 31, 2013. The increase in short-term borrowings is primarily due to borrowings to fund the Company’s ongoing share repurchase program and to finance acquisitions. In November 2014, the Company completed the offering and sale of $850.0 million medium-term notes, consisting of $350.0 million principal amount of 2.875% 2019 Notes and $500.0 million principal amount of 2024 Notes. The aggregate net proceeds were $841.8 million. Short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2013 were primarily used to fund the Company’s $350.0 million accelerated stock buyback program initiated in October 2013.

During 2013, the Company made net payments of $35.8 million on its short-term borrowing arrangements compared to $106.0 million of net proceeds related to these borrowing arrangements in 2012. The Company’s short-term borrowings, which include commercial paper and the receivables financing facility, were $174.0 million at December 31, 2013 compared to $210.7 million at December 31, 2012. Short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2013 were used to fund the Company’s $350.0 million accelerated stock buyback program initiated in October 2013, and short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2012 were used for the early repayment of the $500.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 5.50% notes due 2013 (the “2013 Notes”) in December 2012.

During 2012, the Company received net proceeds of $106.0 million from its short-term borrowing arrangements. The net short-term borrowings in 2012 were used for the redemption of the $436.7 million of the 5.25% Junior Convertible Subordinated Debentures (the “Debentures”) in July 2012 and the repayments of an aggregate $750.0 million principal amount of medium-term notes during 2012, partially offset by proceeds from long-term debt issuances in the second and fourth quarters of 2012. In June 2012, the Company completed the offering and sale of $500.0 million of unsecured senior notes, consisting of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.0% notes due 2015 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% notes due 2022 (collectively, the “Notes”). The aggregate net proceeds from the Notes were $495.1 million, which were used in July 2012 to fund the redemption of all of the $436.7 million outstanding principal amount of the Debentures that underlie the convertible preferred securities, to reduce short-term borrowings and for general corporate purposes. In December 2012, the Company completed the offering and sale of $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.05% notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”). The net proceeds of $346.8 million from the issuance of the 2017 Notes, together with cash on hand and short-term borrowings, were used for the early repayment of the $500.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 5.50% notes due 2013 (the “2013 Notes”) in December 2012.

During 2013, the Company sold its Hardware and Teach Platform businesses for aggregate net proceeds of $180.9 million. The proceeds are net of $3.9 million of transaction expenses and $2.6 million of cash included in the assets sold. In addition, cash provided by operating activities in 2013 includes cash collected on accounts receivable, net of customer-related liabilities, related to the Hardware business, which were retained by the Company in the sale of the Hardware business and totaled approximately $27.0 million of net assets.

During 2014, the Company received $76.6 million in connection with the exercise of employee stock options, which compares to $81.0 million received in 2013 and $15.6 million received in 2012. During 2014, the Company used $15.9 million to repurchase its common stock to satisfy employees’ tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units, which compares to $29.2 million and $16.4 million used in 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

Uses

Historically, the Company’s primary uses of liquidity and capital resources have included capital expenditures, payments on debt, dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.

Capital expenditures were $161.9 million, $138.2 million and $177.2 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Capital expenditures incurred for capitalized software projects included in capital expenditures were $20.8 million, $32.4 million and $43.9 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, with the largest capitalized software project relating to the implementation of SAP.

During 2014, the Company completed the acquisitions of Ignite and Baby Jogger and acquired the assets of bubba. The total net purchase price for these three businesses was $602.3 million, which was paid from proceeds received from the issuance of the 

 37
2.875% 2019 Notes and the 2024 Notes and short-term borrowings. During 2012, the Company paid $26.5 million in connection with acquisitions and acquisition-related activity. 

During 2014, the Company used aggregate net proceeds of $841.8 million from the issuance of the 2.875% 2019 Notes and 2024 Notes and short-term borrowings to redeem $168.7 million of the $550.0 million outstanding 4.7% notes due 2020, redeem the $250.0 million of outstanding 2.0% notes due 2015, redeem the $20.7 million of outstanding 10.6% notes due 2019, finance acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.

During 2012, the Company retired $250.0 million outstanding principal amount of 6.75% medium-term notes (the “2012 Notes”) at maturity in March 2012, for which interest expense was previously recorded at a rate of approximately 2.3% after contemplating the effect of the terminated interest rate swaps related to the 2012 Notes. In July 2012, the Company redeemed $436.7 million outstanding principal amount of Debentures that underlie the Preferred Securities. During the third quarter of 2012, the Company repaid an additional $8.5 million outstanding principal amount of extant 6.11% medium-term notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes”). In December 2012, the Company repaid $500.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 2013 Notes and paid a premium of$7.1 million due to early repayment. The Company used a combination of short-term borrowings, cash on hand, and proceeds from the Notes and the 2017 Notes to repay the 2012 Notes, the 2013 Notes, the 2028 Notes and the Debentures.

Aggregate dividends paid were $182.5 million, $174.1 million and $125.9 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company’s Board of Directors approved a 13.3% increase in the Company’s quarterly dividend from $0.15 per share to $0.17 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2014. The Company’s Board of Directors previously approved a 50% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.10 per share to $0.15 per share, effective with the Company’s dividend paid in December 2012, and increased the quarterly dividend 25% from $0.08 per share to $0.10 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2012.

In August 2011, the Company announced a $300.0 million share repurchase program (the “SRP”). The SRP was authorized to run for a period of three years ending in August 2014. In 2014, the SRP was expanded and extended to provide for over $750.0 million of additional repurchases of the Company’s outstanding shares from February 2014 through December 2017. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company repurchased and retired 11.4 million, 4.7 million, and 4.9 million shares, respectively, pursuant to the SRP for $363.2 million, $119.5 million and $91.5 million, respectively.

In October 2013, the Company entered into agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) to effect an accelerated stock buyback (the “ASB”) of the Company’s common stock. Under the ASB, the Company paid Goldman Sachs an initial purchase price of $350.0 million, and Goldman Sachs delivered to the Company 9.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock. In March 2014, the ASB was completed and Goldman Sachs delivered 2.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock to the Company. Such shares were immediately retired. The Company used cash on hand and short-term borrowings to fund the initial purchase price. 

Cash used for restructuring activities was $71.8 million, $74.9 million and $48.6 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and is included in the cash provided by operating activities. These payments relate primarily to employee severance, termination benefits and relocation costs.

The Company made contributions of $34.9 million, $141.6 million and $100.8 million to its defined benefit plans for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The contributions are included in cash provided by operating activities. 

Cash Conversion Cycle

The Company defines its cash conversion cycle as the sum of inventory and accounts receivable days outstanding (based on cost of products sold and net sales, respectively, for the most recent three-month period, including discontinued operations) minus accounts payable days outstanding (based on cost of products sold for the most recent three-month period, including discontinued operations) at the end of the year. The following table depicts the Company’s cash conversion cycle at December 31, (in number of days):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in the cash conversion cycle from 2014 to 2013 is due to the increase in accounts receivable days, attributable to the timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013, which was more than offset by the increase 

 38
in accounts payable days as a result in increased purchases towards the end of 2014 as compared to 2013. The acquisitions had the effect of increasing the cash conversion cycle by approximately 1 day in 2014 since the bubba and Baby Jogger results of operations were not included in the Company’s results of operations for the entire fourth quarter of 2014. The decrease in the cash conversion cycle from 2012 to 2013 is due to working capital management activities. The Company’s cash conversion cycle is impacted by the seasonality of its businesses and generally tends to be longer in the first and second quarters, based on historical trends, due to inventory build-ups early in the year for seasonal sales activity and credit terms provided to customers. 

Financial Position

The Company is committed to maintaining a strong financial position through maintaining sufficient levels of available liquidity, managing working capital and monitoring the Company’s overall capitalization.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has from time to time refinanced, redeemed or repurchased its debt and taken other steps to reduce its debt or lease obligations or otherwise improve its overall financial position and balance sheet. Going forward, depending on market conditions, its cash positions and other considerations, the Company may continue to take such actions.

Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014 includes $53.3 million subject to currency exchange controls in Venezuela, which limits the total amount of cash and cash equivalents held by the Company that can be used at any particular point in time to support its worldwide operations. 

Borrowing Arrangements

In December 2011, the Company entered into a five-year credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks. As extended, the Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility maturing in December 2019, and an aggregate commitment at any time outstanding of up to $800.0 million (the “Facility”). The Facility is intended to be used for general corporate purposes and, in addition, provides the committed backup liquidity for the issuance of commercial paper. Accordingly, commercial paper may be issued only up to the amount available for borrowing under the Facility. The Facility also provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit, so long as there is a sufficient amount available for borrowing under the Facility. As of December 31, 2014, there were no borrowings or standby letters of credit issued or outstanding under the Facility, and the Company had commercial paper obligations outstanding of $28.0 million, resulting in $772.0 million of borrowing capacity available under the Facility.

In addition to the committed portion of the Facility, the Credit Agreement provides for extensions of competitive bid loans from one or more lenders (at the lenders’ discretion) of up to $500.0 million, which are not a utilization of the amount available for borrowing under the Facility.

In September 2013, the Company amended its receivables financing facility (the “receivables facility”) to increase available borrowings to up to $350.0 million and extend the expiration date to September 2015. As of December 31, 2014, aggregate borrowings of $350.0 million were outstanding under the receivables facility at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.9%.

 39
The following table presents the maximum and average daily borrowings outstanding under the Company’s short-term borrowing arrangements during the years ended December 31, (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The indentures governing the Company’s medium-term notes contain usual and customary nonfinancial covenants. The Company’s borrowing arrangements other than the medium-term notes contain usual and customary nonfinancial covenants and certain financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum debt-to-total-capitalization ratios. As defined by the agreements governing the borrowing arrangements, minimum interest coverage ratio is computed as adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) divided by adjusted interest expense for the four most recent quarterly periods. Generally, maximum debt-to-total-capitalization is calculated as the sum of short-term and long-term debt divided by the sum of (i) total debt, (ii) total stockholders’ equity and (iii) $750.0 million related to impairment charges incurred by the Company. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had complied with all covenants under the indentures and the agreements governing its other borrowing arrangements, and the Company could access the full borrowing capacity available under the Facility and utilize the $772.0 million available for general corporate purposes without exceeding the debt-to-total-capitalization limits in its financial covenants. A failure to maintain the financial covenants would impair the Company’s ability to borrow under the Facility and the receivables facility and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of certain indebtedness.

Debt

The Company has varying needs for short-term working capital financing as a result of the seasonal nature of its business. The volume and timing of production impacts the Company’s cash flows and has historically involved increased production in the first quarter of the year to meet increased customer demand through the remainder of the year. Working capital fluctuations have historically been financed through short-term financing arrangements, such as commercial paper or borrowings under the Facility or receivables facility.

Total debt was $2.5 billion and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, an increase of $645.5 million primarily due to the net increase of $429.7 million in outstanding medium-term notes from the offering and sale of the 2.875% 2019 Notes and the 2024 Notes. The aggregate proceeds of the 2.875% 2019 Notes and 2014 Notes were used to redeem $168.7 million of the $550.0 million outstanding 4.7% notes due 2020, redeem the $250.0 million of outstanding 2.0% notes due 2015 and redeem the $20.7 million of outstanding 10.6% 2019 Notes. The remaining increase in total debt is attributable to $275.0 million of additional borrowings under the receivables facility. The additional debt and operating cash flows were used for capital expenditures, the repurchases under the SRP and acquisitions. 

As of December 31, 2014, the current portion of long-term debt and short-term debt totaled $397.4 million, including $28.0 million of commercial paper and $350.0 million of borrowings under the receivables facility. 

 The following table presents the average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rates for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The average interest rate includes the impacts of fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. 

The Company’s floating-rate debt, which includes medium-term notes that are subject to fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, was 39.3% and 50.4% of total debt as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

See Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Obligations

The Company has adopted and sponsors pension plans in the U.S. and in various other countries. The Company’s ongoing funding requirements for its pension plans are largely dependent on the value of each of the plan’s assets and the investment returns realized on plan assets, as well as prevailing market rates of interest. The Company made no contributions to its primary U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2014. The Company made cash contributions of $100.0 million and $48.5 million to its primary U.S. defined benefit pension plan during 2013 and 2012, respectively. The significant contribution the Company made in 2013 was not 

 40
material to the Company’s pretax income for 2013, considering the expected return on plan assets of 7.5% and the Company’s average borrowing rate of 3.0%. 

The Company made a voluntary cash contribution of approximately $70.0 million to its primary U.S. defined benefit plan in January 2015 to improve the overall funded status of the plan and offset the impacts of the adoption of new mortality tables to measure U.S. plan liabilities. The $70.0 million contribution is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s pretax income for 2015, considering the expected return on plan assets of 7.25% and the Company’s average borrowing rate of 3.0%.

Future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent on changes in interest rates, the actual return on plan assets and various estimates regarding the timing and amount of future benefit payments. For example, in 2014 the projected benefit obligations of the Company’s U.S. defined benefit plans increased $77.3 million due to a 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate and increased $111.9 million due to using updated mortality assumptions. 

In September 2014, the Company commenced an offer to approximately 5,700 former employees who have deferred vested benefits under the Company’s tax-qualified U.S. pension plan. These former employees had the opportunity to make a one-time election to receive a lump-sum distribution of the present value of their benefits by the end of 2014. The benefit obligations associated with these former employees is approximately $200.0 million, equivalent to approximately 20% of the Company's benefit obligation for its U.S. tax-qualified pension plan. Cash payments of $98.6 million were made from plan assets in December 2014 to those electing the lump-sum distribution. The lump-sum payment offer did not impact the Company’s cash flow. Based on the lump-sum distributions that were paid, the Company incurred a non-cash settlement charge of $65.4 million in 2014. 

The Company determines its plan asset investment mix, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. To the extent each plan’s assets decline in value or do not generate the returns expected by the Company or to the extent the pension liabilities increase due to declines in interest rates or otherwise, the Company may be required to make contributions to the pension plans to ensure the pension obligations are adequately funded as required by law or mandate.

Dividends

The Company’s Board of Directors approved a 13% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.15 per share to $0.17 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2014. In February 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.17 per share to $0.19 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend payable in March 2015. 

The Company intends to maintain dividends at a level such that operating cash flows can be used to fund growth initiatives, acquisitions and restructuring activities. The payment of dividends to holders of the Company’s common stock remains at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, payout ratio and other factors the Board of Directors deems relevant.

Share Repurchase Program

Under the SRP, the Company may repurchase its own shares of common stock through a combination of a 10b5-1 automatic trading plan, discretionary market purchases or in privately negotiated transactions. In 2014, the SRP was expanded and extended to provide for over $750.0 million of additional repurchases of the Company’s outstanding shares from February 2014 through December 2017. During 2014, the Company repurchased 11.4 million shares pursuant to the SRP for $363.2 million, and such shares were immediately retired. From the commencement of the SRP in August 2011 through December 31, 2014, the Company has repurchased and retired a total of 24.4 million shares for $620.3 million, and the Company has $436.4 million of authorized repurchases remaining under the SRP as of December 31, 2014. The repurchase of additional shares will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and legal requirements. Although the SRP authorizes the Company to repurchase shares through the end of 2017, the Company may execute such repurchases at any time and from time to time and may accelerate and complete authorized repurchases under the SRP sooner than the scheduled expiration.

Accelerated Share Repurchase Plan

In October 2013, the Company entered into agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) to effect an accelerated stock buyback (the “ASB”) of the Company’s common stock. Under the ASB, the Company paid Goldman Sachs an initial purchase price of $350.0 million, and Goldman Sachs delivered to the Company 9.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock based on an initial per share amount of $29.69. The number of shares that the Company ultimately purchased under the ASB was determined based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average share prices of the Company’s common stock over the course of a calculation period. In March 2014, the ASB was completed and Goldman Sachs delivered 2.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock to the Company. Such shares were immediately retired. 

 41
Credit Ratings

The Company’s credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. The Company’s current senior and short-term debt credit ratings from three credit rating agencies are listed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook

Overall, the Company believes that available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows generated from future operations, access to capital markets, and availability under the Facility and receivables facility will be adequate to support the cash needs of existing businesses. The Company plans to use available cash, borrowing capacity, cash flows from future operations and alternative financing arrangements to repay debt maturities as they come due, including short-term debt of $390.7 million, primarily representing commercial paper and borrowings under the receivables facility.

Resolution of Income Tax Contingencies 

The Company recorded $15.5 million and $7.9 million in net income tax benefits in 2014 and 2013, respectively, as a result of the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with taxing authorities and the expiration of the statute of limitations on certain tax matters. In 2012, amounts recognized as income tax benefits as a result of the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with taxing authorities, and the expiration of the statute of limitations were not material. These benefits are reflected in the Company’s 2014, 2013 and 2012 Consolidated Statements of Operations. The ultimate resolution of outstanding tax matters may be different from that reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals, which may adversely impact future operating results and cash flows. 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company has outstanding debt obligations maturing at various dates through 2028. Certain other items, such as purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. Examples of items not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements are commitments to purchase raw materials or inventory that has not yet been received as of December 31, 2014, and future minimum lease payments for the use of property and equipment under operating lease agreements. 

The following table summarizes the effect that lease and other material contractual obligations is expected to have on the Company’s cash flow in the indicated period. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2014. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Amounts represent estimated interest payable on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2014, excluding the impact of interest rate swaps that adjust the fixed rate to a floating rate for $596.0 million of medium-term notes. Interest on floating-rate debt was estimated using the rate in effect as of December 31, 2014. For further information, see Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(3)Amounts represent contractual minimum lease obligations on operating leases as of December 31, 2014. For further information relating to these obligations, see Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 42
(4)Primarily consists of purchase commitments entered into as of December 31, 2014, for finished goods, raw materials, components and services pursuant to legally enforceable and binding obligations, which include all significant terms. 

(5)Total does not include contractual obligations reported on the December 31, 2014 balance sheet as current liabilities, except for current portion of long-term debt, short-term debt and accrued interest. 

The Company also has liabilities for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits. The Company is under audit from time-to-time by the IRS and other taxing authorities, and it is possible that the amount of the liability for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits could change in the coming year. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved in the next year, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or the amount by which the liability will be settled over time; therefore, the $101.4 million in unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2014 is excluded from the preceding table. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Additionally, the Company has obligations with respect to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which are excluded from the preceding table. The timing and amounts of the funding requirements are uncertain because they are dependent on interest rates and actual returns on plan assets, among other factors. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had liabilities, net of plan assets, of $486.1 million related to its unfunded and underfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

As of December 31, 2014, the Company had $40.0 million in standby letters of credit primarily related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product liability and medical. See Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

As of December 31, 2014, the Company did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Company’s accounting policies are more fully described in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in that footnote, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections describe the Company’s critical accounting policies. 

Sales Recognition 

Sales of merchandise and freight billed to customers are recognized when title passes and all substantial risks of ownership transfer, which generally occurs either upon shipment or upon delivery based upon contractual terms. Sales are net of provisions for cash discounts, returns, customer discounts (such as volume or trade discounts), cooperative advertising and other sales-related discounts. 

Customer Programs 

The Company participates in various programs and arrangements with customers designed to increase the sale of products by these customers. Among the programs negotiated are arrangements under which allowances are earned by customers for attaining agreed-upon sales levels or for participating in specific marketing programs. Coupon programs are also developed on a customer- and territory-specific basis with the intent of increasing sales by all customers. The cost of all of these various programs, included as a reduction in net sales, totaled $594.2 million, $527.8 million and $486.8 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

Under customer programs and arrangements that require sales incentives to be paid in advance, the Company amortizes the amount paid over the period of benefit or contractual sales volume. When incentives are paid in arrears, the Company accrues the estimated amount to be paid based on the program’s contractual terms, expected customer performance and/or estimated sales volume. These estimates are determined using historical customer experience and other factors, which sometimes require significant judgment. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company had accrued $288.3 million and $270.7 million, respectively, for customer programs, and such amounts are included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the length of time necessary to obtain relevant data from our customers, among other factors, actual amounts paid can differ from these estimates. 

 43
Recovery of Accounts Receivable 

The Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. When aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position, the Company records a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to the amount the Company reasonably believes is collectible. The Company also records reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience. Accounts are reviewed for potential write-off on a case-by-case basis. Accounts deemed uncollectible are written off, net of expected recoveries. If circumstances related to specific customers change, the Company’s estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be further adjusted. The Company’s reserve for uncollectible accounts was $16.0 million and $27.1 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Inventory Reserves 

The Company reduces its inventory value for estimated obsolete and slow-moving inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Net provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, including shrink reserves, totaled $24.3 million, $19.6 million and $35.8 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and are included in cost of products sold. The Company’s reserve for excess and obsolete inventory and shrink reserves totaled $32.6 million and $37.8 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Business Combinations

The Company allocates purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Company makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. 

Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, trade names and trademarks and acquired patents and developed technology; the period of time the Company expects to use the acquired intangible asset; and discount rates. In estimating the future cash flows, the Company considers demand, competition and other economic factors. The Company’s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates, which could result in impairment charges in the future. Estimates associated with the accounting for business combinations may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which could result in adjustments to the values of tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired or could result in future income or expenses if such changes in estimates are identified beyond one year from the date of acquisition.

The Company considers various factors in determining whether an acquired trademark or trade name has an indefinite life. In assessing whether an acquired trademark or trade name has an indefinite life, the Company considers legal and regulatory provisions that may limit the useful life, customer loyalty, brand strength and positioning, the effects of obsolescence and other economic factors, the Company’s plans for incorporating the trademark or trade name into its brand portfolio and the Company’s historical experience in using and renewing similar assets. The Company considers all other acquired intangible assets definite-lived assets and generally amortizes the assets on a straight-line basis. The Company determines the amortizable life of acquired definite-lived intangible assets based on the number of years over which a significant amount of the discounted cash flows contributes to the estimated fair value of the asset.

The Company accounts for costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company separately from the business combination. A liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the costs of exiting facilities, estimates are made regarding future sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. As a result, the Company may be required to revise its estimates which may affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Goodwill

The Company performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill at a reporting unit level, and all of the Company’s goodwill is assigned to the Company’s reporting units. Reporting units are generally one level below the operating segment level. The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment testing as of July 1, 2014 for the 13 reporting units that comprise the Company’s 

 44
five operating segments. Acquired businesses, if any, including goodwill arising from such transactions, are integrated into the Company's existing reporting units. Goodwill of $173.6 million associated with the acquisitions of Ignite and the assets of bubba has been included in the Rubbermaid Consumer reporting unit as of December 31, 2014, and goodwill of $91.8 million associated with the acquisition of Baby Jogger has been included in the Baby & Parenting reporting unit as of December 31, 2014. 

As of July 1, 2014, the Company had 13 reporting units with total goodwill of $2.4 billion. Four of the Company’s 13 reporting units accounted for over 72% of the Company’s total goodwill. These four reporting units were as follows: Writing & Creative Expression; Commercial Products; Dymo Office; and Industrial Products & Services.

The Company conducts its annual test of impairment of goodwill as of the first day of the third quarter because it generally coincides with its annual strategic planning process. The Company also tests for impairment if events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. For example, if macroeconomic factors, such as consumer demand and consumer confidence, deteriorate materially such that the Company's reporting units’ projected sales and operating income decline significantly relative to previous estimates, the Company will perform an interim test to assess whether goodwill is impaired. The Company determined that no interim tests of impairment of goodwill were necessary during 2014. 

In the Company’s goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit is greater than its fair value, impairment may be present. Estimates made by management in performing its impairment testing may impact whether or not an impairment charge is necessary and the magnitude of the corresponding impairment charge to the extent one is recorded. The Company uses multiple valuation approaches in its impairment testing, each of which requires estimates to arrive at an estimate of fair value. For the Company's reporting units that are stable businesses and have a history of generating positive operating income and cash flows, the Company relies on a multiple of earnings approach to assess fair value. The material assumptions used to value a reporting unit using this approach are the reporting units’ estimated financial performance for the remainder of the year and the applicable multiple to apply to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). The estimated financial performance for the remainder of the year is based on the Company’s internal forecasting process. To determine the EBITDA multiple, the Company obtains information from third parties on EBITDA multiples observed for recent acquisitions and other transactions in the marketplace for comparable businesses. The Company also evaluates the EBITDA multiples of publicly traded companies that are in the same industry and are comparable to each reporting unit and compares the EBITDA multiples of the publicly traded companies to the multiples used by the Company to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit. The Company evaluates the EBITDA multiples used to value the reporting units relative to the Company's market capitalization plus an equity control premium. The equity control premium is defined as the sum of the individual reporting units’ estimated market values compared to the Company's market value, with the sum of the individual values typically being larger than the market value of the Company. The Company considers premiums paid by acquirers of comparable businesses to determine the reasonableness of the implied control premium. 

The EBITDA multiple observed in the marketplace for publicly traded companies that are comparable to the reporting units ranged from 6 to 15. In using the EBITDA multiples, the Company compared the aggregate value of all reporting units to the Company’s total market value to validate the aggregate values of the reporting units resulted in a reasonable implied equity control premium. The Company considers several factors in estimating the EBITDA multiple applicable to each reporting unit, including the reporting unit’s market position, brand awareness, gross and operating income margins, and prospects for growth, among other factors. After adjusting the EBITDA multiples for the reporting units, no potential goodwill impairment was indicated for reporting units for which this approach was used. Furthermore, the Company's equity market value at July 1, 2014 of approximately $8.6 billion was significantly in excess of its book value of stockholders' equity of approximately $2.0 billion. For the impairment test as of July 1, 2014, if each reporting unit’s EBITDA multiple were reduced by 1.0 from the 6 to 15 multiple used for each reporting unit, all reporting units where the EBITDA multiple approach was used to value the reporting unit would have passed step one of the goodwill impairment test. 

The Company relies on a discounted cash flow approach to value reporting units in certain circumstances, such as when the reporting unit is growing at a significantly slower rate than planned, is declining at a significantly faster rate than the overall market, has experienced significant losses, is in a stage of hyper-growth, is executing significant restructuring efforts, or is in a stage of development where it has not yet fully realized the benefits of scale and operating efficiencies. The Company did not use the discounted cash flow approach for any of its reporting units for the annual impairment test as of July 1, 2014. The material assumptions used to value a reporting unit using the discounted cash flow approach are the future financial performance and cash flows of the reporting unit, the discount rate, long-term sales growth rate, and the working capital investment required. Estimates of future financial performance include estimates of future sales growth rates, raw material and sourced product costs, currency fluctuations, and operating efficiencies to be realized. The Company determines a discount rate based on an estimate of a reasonable risk-adjusted return an investor would expect to realize on an investment in the reporting unit. 

The Company has no reporting units with net assets whose estimated fair values at July 1, 2014 exceeded net assets by less than 10% of the reporting unit’s net assets. 

 45
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

The Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $312.2 million as of July 1, 2014. The Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. The Company may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative impairment test. Additionally, the Company may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. 

In performing the qualitative assessment for each of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company considered events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, including factors such as declines in actual or planned sales or negative or declining cash flows; input cost inflation that may have a negative effect on future cash flows; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business or other factors; and, other entity-specific events such as changes in management, key personnel, strategy or customers. Based on the qualitative assessment, if the Company was unable to assert that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the Company would proceed with the quantitative impairment test for such asset. 

For the quantitative impairment test, the Company estimates the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets by employing a discounted cash flow model using the relief-from-royalty method, which estimates royalties to be derived in the future use of the asset were the Company to license the use of the trade name. An impairment charge for indefinite-lived intangible assets is recorded if the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the estimated fair value on the measurement date. 

The Company completed its annual impairment test of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of July 1, 2014 and determined that none of its indefinite-lived intangible assets were impaired. The Company performed the quantitative impairment test for the $37.0 million carrying value of the Aprica trade name due to competitive pressures and other factors that have recently adversely impacted Aprica sales in Japan. The Company concluded the Aprica trade name was not impaired. However, a 100 basis point decrease in the royalty rate used in the quantitative impairment test would have resulted in an impairment of the Aprica trade name of $8.6 million, and a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate used would have resulted in an impairment of $2.5 million. 

The Company considers qualitative and quantitative factors in determining whether impairment testing of the trademark and trade name assets is necessary at dates other than the annual impairment testing date, such as whether the Company has plans to abandon or significantly reduce the use of a trademark or trade name. Based on consideration of these factors, the Company determined that no impairment indicators have been present, and therefore, impairment testing as of a date other than July 1, 2014 was not required during 2014. 

Potential for Future Impairments

The Company had 13 reporting units with total goodwill of $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2014. Five of the Company’s 13 reporting units accounted for approximately 80% of the Company’s total goodwill. These five reporting units were as follows: Writing & Creative Expression; Commercial Products; Dymo Office; Rubbermaid Consumer; and Industrial Products & Services. The Company also had $470.2 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2014. The Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base and net sales, a material negative change in its relationships with significant customers, or sustained declines in the Company’s market capitalization relative to its reported stockholders' equity. The Company periodically evaluates the impact of economic and other conditions on the Company and its reporting units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. The Company may be required to perform additional impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, which could result in impairment charges in the future. Although management cannot predict when improvements in macroeconomic conditions will occur, if consumer confidence and consumer spending decline significantly in the future or if commercial and industrial economic activity deteriorates significantly from current levels, it is reasonably likely the Company will be required to record impairment charges in the future.

Capitalized Software Costs 

The Company capitalizes costs associated with internal-use software during the application development stage after both the preliminary project stage has been completed and the Company’s management has authorized and committed to funding for further project development. Capitalized internal-use software costs include: (i) external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software; (ii) payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time directly to the project; and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing the software. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose. The Company expenses as incurred research and development, general and administrative, and indirect costs associated with internal-use software. In addition, the Company expenses as incurred training, maintenance and other internal-use software costs incurred during the post-implementation stage. Costs associated with upgrades and enhancements of internal-use software are capitalized only if such modifications result in additional functionality of the software. The Company capitalized $20.8 million of software costs during 2014, which primarily relate to employee, consultant and related personnel costs incurred in the rollout of SAP in Latin America. 

 46
Capitalized software costs net of accumulated amortization were $232.3 million at December 31, 2014. Capitalized interest costs included in capitalized software were not material as of December 31, 2014.

The Company amortizes internal-use software costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which typically ranges from 3 to 12 years. Capitalized software costs are evaluated annually for indicators of impairment, including but not limited to a significant change in available technology or the manner in which the software is being used. Impaired items are written down to their estimated fair values. 

Other Long-Lived Assets 

The Company continuously evaluates whether impairment indicators related to its property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are present. These impairment indicators may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset or asset group, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset or asset group. If impairment indicators are present, the Company estimates the future cash flows for the asset or group of assets. The sum of the undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset or group of assets is compared to their carrying amount. The cash flows are estimated utilizing various assumptions regarding future sales and expenses, working capital and proceeds from asset disposals on a basis consistent with the Company’s strategic plan. If the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, the Company discounts the future cash flows using a discount rate required for a similar investment of like risk and records an impairment charge as the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the asset group. Generally, the Company performs its testing of the asset group at the product-line level, as this is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available. 

Product Liability Reserves 

The Company has a self-insurance program for product liability that includes reserves for self-retained losses and certain excess and aggregate risk transfer insurance. The Company uses historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods, review of significant individual files and the application of risk transfer programs in determining required product liability reserves. The Company’s actuarial evaluation methods take into account claims incurred but not reported when determining the Company’s product liability reserve. The Company has product liability reserves of $33.6 million as of December 31, 2014. While the Company believes that it has adequately reserved for these claims, the ultimate outcome of these matters may exceed the amounts recorded by the Company, and such additional losses may be material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Legal and Environmental Reserves 

The Company is subject to losses resulting from extensive and evolving federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, as well as contract and other disputes. The Company evaluates the potential legal and environmental losses relating to each specific case and estimates the probability and amount of loss based on historical experience and estimates of cash flows for certain environmental matters. The estimated losses take into account anticipated costs associated with investigative and remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a probable liability has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. No insurance recovery is taken into account in determining the Company’s cost estimates or reserve, nor do the Company’s cost estimates or reserve reflect any discounting for present value purposes, except with respect to long-term operations and maintenance, Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and other matters which are estimated at present value. The Company’s estimate of environmental response costs associated with these matters as of December 31, 2014, ranged between $23.0 million and $28.3 million. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had a reserve of $24.1 million for such environmental response costs in the aggregate, which is included in other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Income Taxes 

In accordance with relevant authoritative guidance, the Company accounts for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability approach. Under this approach, deferred income taxes are recognized based on the tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. No provision is made for the U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as substantially all such earnings are permanently reinvested. 

The Company’s income tax provisions are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the IRS and other tax authorities. Although the Company believes that the positions taken on previously filed tax returns are reasonable, it has established tax, interest and penalty reserves in recognition that various taxing authorities may challenge the positions taken, which could result in additional liabilities for taxes, interest and penalties. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for 

 47
recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. 

For uncertain tax positions, the Company applies the provisions of relevant authoritative guidance, which requires application of a “more likely than not” threshold to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions. The Company’s ongoing assessments of the more likely than not outcomes of tax authority examinations and related tax positions require significant judgment and can increase or decrease the Company’s effective tax rate as well as impact operating results. 

The Company’s provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be favorably or adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower in countries that have lower tax rates and higher or lower in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in tax-related legislation; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; by liquidity needs driving repatriations of non-U.S. cash to the U.S.; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. 

The Company’s effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign tax rates, tax credits, the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax audit settlements and valuation allowance adjustments. Significant judgment is required in evaluating uncertain tax positions, determining valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets, and ultimately, the income tax provision. 

It is difficult to predict when resolution of income tax matters will occur and when recognition of certain income tax assets and liabilities is appropriate, and the Company’s income tax expense in the future may continue to differ from the statutory rate because of the effects of similar items. For example, if items are favorably resolved or management determines a deferred tax asset is realizable that was previously reserved, the Company will recognize period tax benefits. Conversely, to the extent tax matters are unfavorably resolved or management determines a valuation allowance is necessary for a tax asset that was not previously reserved, the Company will recognize incremental period tax expense. These matters are expected to contribute to the tax rate differing from the statutory rate and continued volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate. 

See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 

Pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are dependent on assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The primary assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and rate of compensation increases, as discussed below: 

•Discount rates: The Company generally estimates the discount rate for its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations using an iterative process based on a hypothetical investment in a portfolio of high-quality bonds that approximate the estimated cash flows of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The Company believes this approach permits a matching of future cash outflows related to benefit payments with future cash inflows associated with bond coupons and maturities. 

•Health care cost trend rate: The Company’s health care cost trend rate is based on historical retiree cost data, near-term health care outlook, and industry benchmarks and surveys.

•Expected return on plan assets: The Company’s expected return on plan assets is derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies and historical and anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes. The Company’s analysis gives consideration to historical returns and long-term, prospective rates of return. 

•Mortality rates: Mortality rates are based on actual and projected plan experience, including consideration of the most recent mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries for the Company’s U.S. plans.

•Rate of compensation increase: The rate of compensation increases reflects the Company’s long-term actual experience and its outlook, including consideration of expected rates of inflation. 

 48
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods, and therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. While management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the Company’s pension and other postretirement plan obligations and future expense. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the assumptions used. The following tables summarize the Company’s pension and other postretirement plan assets and obligations included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014 (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes the net pretax cost associated with pensions and other postretirement benefit obligations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 4.4% to determine the expenses for 2014 for the pension and postretirement plans. The Company used a weighted-average expected return on assets of 6.3% to determine the expense for the pension plans for 2014. 

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for the pension and postretirement plan expenses, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The total projected benefit obligations of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans as of December 31, 2014 were $1.73 billion and $88.1 million, respectively. The Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 3.6% to determine the projected benefit obligations for the pension and postretirement plans as of December 31, 2014. 

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for the projected benefit obligation for the pension and postretirement plans, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has $511.7 million (after-tax) of net unrecognized pension and other postretirement losses ($750.0 million pretax) included as a reduction to stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2014. The unrecognized gains and losses primarily result from 

 49
changes to life expectancies and other actuarial assumptions, changes in discount rates, as well as actual returns on plan assets being more or less than expected. The unrecognized gain (loss) for each plan is generally amortized to expense over the remaining life of each plan. The net amount amortized to expense totaled $21.0 million (pretax) in 2014, and amortization of unrecognized net losses is expected to continue to result in increases in pension and other postretirement plan expenses for the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company recognized $65.4 million of previously unrecognized pension losses as a settlement charge in 2014 in connection with the payment of lump-sum benefits to certain U.S. pension plan participants. Changes in actuarial assumptions, changes in discount rates, actual returns on plan assets and changes in the actuarially determined life of the plans impact the amount of unrecognized gain (loss) recognized as expense annually. 

Restructuring 

The Company has and expects to continue to engage in restructuring activities, which requires management to utilize significant estimates related to the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reductions and other separation programs, realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation and other exit costs, including environmental and legal contingencies associated with restructuring activities. The Company accrues for severance and other employee separation costs under these activities when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experience and previously negotiated settlements. The Company accrues for future lease costs, net of management’s estimate for future sublease income, when the leased property has been vacated and is no longer being used. When estimating the costs of exiting facilities, estimates are made regarding future sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results and result in additional restructuring costs in future periods. Environmental and legal contingencies associated with restructuring activities are accrued when the liability is probable of being incurred and is estimable. The total restructuring liabilities included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $46.2 million and $76.7 million, respectively. Due to the estimates required for future payments for employee separation programs, vacated leased properties and contingencies, actual amounts paid can differ from these estimates. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Footnote 1—Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 

International Operations 

For 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company’s non-U.S. businesses accounted for approximately 31%, 33% and 33% of net sales, respectively (see Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes in both U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are shown below for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company accounts for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. 

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s Venezuelan operations. 

Income Taxes

The Company’s provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be favorably or adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower in countries that have lower tax rates and higher or lower in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in tax-related legislation; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. 

The Company’s effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, tax credits, the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation and valuation allowance 

 50
adjustments. Significant judgment is required in evaluating uncertain tax positions, determining valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets, and ultimately, the income tax provision. 

It is difficult to predict when resolution of income tax matters will occur and when recognition of certain income tax assets and liabilities is appropriate, and the Company’s income tax expense in the future may continue to differ from the statutory rate because of the effects of similar items. For example, if items are favorably resolved or management determines a deferred tax asset is realizable that was previously reserved, the Company will recognize period tax benefits. Conversely, to the extent tax matters are unfavorably resolved or management determines a valuation allowance is necessary for a tax asset that was not previously reserved, the Company will recognize incremental period tax expense. These matters are expected to contribute to the tax rate differing from the statutory rate and continued volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate.

Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Various valuation techniques exist for measuring fair value, including the market approach (comparable market prices), the income approach (present value of future income or cash flow), and the cost approach (cost to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). These valuation techniques are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. The authoritative accounting guidance for fair value provides a hierarchy that prioritizes these two inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. 

The following is a brief description of those three levels: 

•Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 

•Level 2: Observable inputs other than quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for similar or identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable. 

•Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions. 

The Company’s assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value at least annually are its money market fund investments, included in cash and cash equivalents; mutual fund and other investments, included in other assets; derivative instruments, primarily included in prepaid expenses and other, other assets, other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities; and pension assets and liabilities included in the Company’s net pension liability, and these assets and liabilities are therefore subject to the measurement and disclosure requirements outlined in the authoritative guidance. The Company determines the fair value of its money market fund investments based on the values of the underlying assets (Level 2) and its mutual fund and other investments based on quoted market prices (Level 1). The Company generally uses derivatives for hedging purposes, and the Company’s derivatives are primarily foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps. The Company determines the fair value of its derivative instruments using standard pricing models and market-based assumptions for all significant inputs, such as yield curves and quoted spot and forward exchange rates. Accordingly, the Company’s derivative instruments are classified as Level 2. The Company determines the fair value of its pension assets annually primarily based on quoted market prices (Level 1) and the fair value of underlying investments and market-based inputs (Level 2). The fair values of approximately 5% of the Company’s pension assets are determined using Level 3 inputs.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Report are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may relate to, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about the effects of sales (including pricing), income/(loss), earnings per share, return on equity, return on invested capital, operating income, operating margin or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Renewal, capital and other expenditures, working capital, cash flow, dividends, capital structure, debt to capitalization ratios, debt ratings, availability of financing, interest rates, restructuring, restructuring-related and organizational change implementation costs, impairment and other charges, potential losses on divestitures, impacts of changes in accounting standards, pending legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters), future economic performance, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation with respect to raw materials and sourced products, productivity and streamlining, synergies, changes in foreign exchange rates, product recalls, expected benefits and financial results from recently completed acquisitions and planned divestitures and management’s plans, goals and objectives for future operations, performance and growth or the assumptions relating to any of the forward-looking statements. These statements generally are accompanied by words such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “plan,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” 

 51
“would” or similar statements. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting future results. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company’s dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the continuation or escalation of the global economic slowdown or regional sovereign debt issues; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers’ strong bargaining power; the effects of consolidation of the Company’s customers; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and the Company’s ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; the Company’s ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen its end-user brands; the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising spend; product liability, product recalls or regulatory actions (including any fines or penalties resulting from governmental investigations into the circumstances related thereto); the Company’s ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; a failure of one of the Company’s key information technology systems or related controls; the potential inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; future events that could adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets and require impairment charges; the Company’s ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to the Company’s credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to the Company’s pension plans due to declining asset values, declining interest rates or otherwise; the imposition of tax liabilities greater than the Company’s provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in the Company’s foreign operations, including exchange controls and pricing restrictions; the Company’s ability to realize the expected benefits and financial results from its recently acquired businesses and planned divestitures; and those matters set forth in this Report generally, including Item 1A herein. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and assessed all of the factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information the Company receives with respect to these factors is complete or correct.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK