Item 1.BUSINESS

General Background Information

We are one of the largest technical professional services firms in the world. We provide a diverse range of technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients. We provide four broad categories of services:

•Project Services (including engineering, design, architecture, interiors, planning, environmental, and similar services);

•Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting Services (including services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology and systems engineering and integration activities);

•Construction Services (encompassing traditional field construction services as well as modular construction consulting capabilities, direct hire construction, and construction management services); and

•Operations and Maintenance Services (including services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).

We focus our services on clients operating in the following industries and markets: 

•Oil and gas exploration, production, and refining;

•Chemicals and polymers;

•Programs for various national governments, including aerospace, defense, and environmental programs;

•Buildings (including specialized buildings for clients operating in the fields of healthcare, education, and high technology; governmental complexes; other specialized civic and mission critical buildings, installations, and laboratories; and retail and commercial buildings);

•Infrastructure and telecommunications;

Page 3
•Mining and minerals;

•Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology;

•Power;

•Pulp and paper;

•Technology and manufacturing; and,

•Food and consumer products, among others.

We are headquartered in Pasadena, California, USA, and provide our services through more than 200 offices located around the globe, primarily in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, India, Australia, Africa, and Asia.

How We Operate

The relationships we have with our clients drive our business. As a broad-based technical professional services firm, we offer a range of services to help our clients maintain a competitive edge in their respective markets. From feasibility studies to design, to engineering, to construction, to start-up and commissioning, and then to operations and maintenance, we customize our services to meet business and project goals. Our global network of professionals works with a multi-office approach in an effort to provide clients with the best, most economical project or program solutions.

We strive to provide client value through continuous improvement in our performance. We regularly monitor our clients' expectations, our project delivery protocols and system, and our operational performance. Tools such as our Jacobs Value Enhancing Practices, Global Standard Operating Procedures, project reviews, the Jacobs System to Ensure Project Success ("JSTEPS") and Safe Plans of Action ("SPAs") provide added value to our clients' projects. They also allow us to create performance improvement actions during the project execution. Through continuous improvement upon our performance, our tools, and our processes, we believe we can offer our clients superior value when they do business with us. 

JacobsValue+SM ("Value Plus") is an internal tool we use to document and quantify the actual value or savings we provide to our clients and their projects. Some of the benefits achieved through the Value Plus program include lower total installed cost, shorter schedule, and reduced life cycle cost. Value Plus is implemented at project initiation: a project goal is created, and cost-saving ideas are entered into the Value Plus database. When the Value Plus cycle is complete, the project team and client identify unique cost and/or schedule reductions for the project.

Our Business Model

Our organizational structure and integrated system for delivering services are key components of our business strategy. Our operating units generally use a matrix organizational structure whereby our project management functions are supported by the various technical planning, design, and construction disciplines that are necessary to effectively execute long-term engineering and construction contracts. We recognize that technical expertise alone cannot grow our business; project management skills and the ability to manage multi-million dollar projects and programs for our clients are critical to our success. Crucial functions, such as project controls and procurement, are embedded within each of our regions and serve operations by providing specialized services required by projects. 

Our business is set up to foster cooperation among teams and across our operating units. Historically, we have not operated “profit centers” within the Company, nor do we allow our operating groups to compete against each other for contracts. Our organizational structure and integrated system for delivering services are key components of our business strategy. The following three ideas support our business model:

Multi-Domestic Approach

We work in many countries with locally-staffed offices that share a common set of values, tools, and a single vision, while maintaining one-on-one contact with individual clients. This multi-domestic approach enables us to provide customized service suited to the locale while still taking advantage of the Company’s global network.

Boundaryless Approach

Page 4
Our diversity encompasses our people, geographic reach, expertise, and technical capabilities. On projects around the world, we enhance local expertise with the best talent and the best technology available anywhere throughout the Company. This seamless, boundaryless approach keeps us flexible and enhances our ability to develop the best possible solutions for our clients, regardless of office or project location.

Cost Management Approach

As the global economy expands and companies providing technical, professional, and construction services are required to compete against each other across geographic boundaries, companies that can provide their clients with cost-efficient solutions to their project needs have the advantage. With a strong focus on managing costs, we provide savings to clients and deliver superior technical, professional, and construction services safely, efficiently, and within the cost and time parameters our clients require.

Jacobs’ corporate functions include Project Delivery, Safety, Finance and Administration, Legal, Human Resources, Information Technology, Compliance and, through fiscal 2015, Global Sales and Marketing, which are all integral to our success.

The Company's Culture

Our employees are our most important and valuable asset and, therefore, the prevention of job-related injuries is given top priority. It is the policy of the Company to provide and maintain a safe and healthy working environment and to follow operating practices that safeguard all employees and result in a more efficient operation. BeyondZero® , the name of our program that promotes our culture of caring, moves beyond efforts to have an incident and injury-free safety performance. We implement a culture of caring where concern for employees' health, safety, and welfare extends outside the office walls, beyond the project site fences and into their homes, cars, and all the places where they interact with family, friends, and fellow employees.

Since Jacobs’ founding, the Company has been based on doing business honestly, ethically, and with the utmost integrity. Our culture, and our Code of Conduct that is signed annually by all employees, prescribes that everyone at the Company must adhere to Jacobs’ Core Values and ethical code, and comply with the laws that govern the Company’s activities worldwide. Our employees and business partners are expected to follow the highest principles of business conduct, integrity, and ethics as they carry out their responsibilities, and are guided by the following principles in carrying out their responsibilities: loyalty, compliance with applicable laws, observance of ethical standards, avoidance of conflicts of interest, and communication. We endeavor to deal fairly with our employees, customers, suppliers, and competitors, and to respect the policies and procedures of those outside the Company.

We strive to present a clear and consistent image of our Company to our clients, employees, shareholders, and business partners - regarding how we behave, how we communicate, how we look, and most importantly, how our promises to our clients are delivered - anywhere in the world. 

We accomplish this foremost through our core values, which allow us to behave as one company and unify us worldwide. By keeping our core values as a central focus of our Company, we are able to think the same way and arrive at similar conclusions, regardless of our physical location. Our core values are:

•People are our greatest asset;

•We are relationship-based; and 

•Growth is an imperative. 

The balance inherent in our core values is also evident in our approach to sustainability, which maintains an even balance among the people, the economics, and the environmental aspects of business. Jacobs is driven to continuously improve efficiencies and reduce energy and resources, practices that drive down costs and contribute to a lower impact on the environment. The Company adheres to the following seven sustainability principles: 

•Sustainable development is a corporate priority; 

•We seek broad, deep, differentiated capabilities and services; 

Page 5
•Sustainable development is integrated into our business; 

•Training and education are important; 

•Our facilities and operations follow sustainable principles; 

•We contribute to the common effort for sustainability; and 

•We are open and transparent. 

Applying the best, most efficient and effective sustainable solutions for clients worldwide, in all major industries in which our clients operate, allows us to make a significant contribution to a safe and sustainable future. Each year we issue a Sustainability Report that describes many of our efforts and accomplishments regarding environmental sustainability.

With respect to human resources, our goal is to establish an inclusive, diverse workplace that energizes the people who fuel our Company's growth. Although we are a large company with over 64,000 employees in over 25 countries, our employees are unified in their focus on superior value, safety, and ethical business practices regardless of the country in which they work, and employees frequently move around the system as they grow their careers.

How We Grow

Jacobs has grown significantly since its founding in 1947; both through organic growth and through strategic acquisitions, an important part of the Company’s growth strategy. We have acquired and integrated numerous companies over the years that have enhanced our capabilities, geographic reach, and offerings.

In terms of organic growth, our relationship-based business model is central to our sustained growth and profitability. We pursue the development of long-term relationships and alliances with our clients. By working with our clients on their capital programs, we increase our understanding of their overall business needs, as well as the unique technical requirements of their specific projects. This increased understanding enables us, we believe, to provide superior value to our clients. Our approach provides us with opportunities to market the services our clients are expected to need in the pre-design phase, such as master planning, permitting, or project finance options; in the design phase; and in the construction, post-start-up and commissioning phases of a facility, including operations and maintenance services. 

Our relationships with clients also present ongoing opportunities to expand into adjacent markets. For example, clients operating in the mining and minerals market often have a need for our infrastructure and buildings capabilities. The same is true for clients operating in other markets. 

We market our services to clients in a wide range of public and institutional, process, and industrial markets. We increase our opportunities through selective market diversity, and are able to price contracts more competitively and enhance overall profitability while delivering additional value to our clients by integrating and bundling our services. In complex economic times, we have the ability to evolve along with market cycles worldwide. When opportunities decrease in a particular market or geography, other opportunities often increase. Because of our selective market diversity, we believe we are well-positioned to address a wide range of opportunities across many markets and geographies, which helps us grow our business.

Closely linked to our relationship-based business model is our multi-domestic geographic strategy. Our core clients can depend on us for assistance with their engineering and construction needs when they move projects around the world. We therefore follow our clients into new geographic regions, which helps us perform meaningful portions of their projects by utilizing local resources rather than exporting the work to other offices.

Page 6
The Role of Acquisitions and Strategic Investments in the Development Our Business

When we review acquisition targets, we are conscious of the effect the acquisition may have on our client base. We favor acquisitions that allow us to (i) expand into a new client market; (ii) enhance the range of services we provide existing clients; and/or (iii) access new geographic areas in which our clients either already operate or plan to expand. By expanding into new geographic areas and adding to our existing technical and project management capabilities, we strive to position ourselves as a preferred, single-source provider of technical, professional, and construction services to our major clients. The following is a brief description of some of our recent key acquisitions (in reverse chronological order):

•On March 31, 2015, we acquired Suzhou Hans Chemical Engineering Co. ("SHCE") headquartered in China. SHCE has two specialty Class A design licenses in China’s Chemical, Petrochemical and Pharmaceutical industries, which allows the firm to provide engineering design for all types of chemical projects in China irrespective of project size plus procurement and project management services for various projects in China. These combined resources enable Jacobs to offer customers in China a complete spectrum of services for all types of chemical and petrochemical projects. 

•On July 1, 2014, we acquired Federal Network Systems ("FNS"), a subsidiary of Verizon Communications headquartered in Ashburn, Virginia. FNS provides systems integration and communication, information technology and data security solutions for the global market with a particular focus on supporting the Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), and federal civilian customers. FNS designs, integrates, secures, operates and maintains highly complex mission critical voice, data and video networks. 

•On February 7, 2014, we acquired Eagleton Engineering, LLC ("Eagleton") headquartered in Houston, Texas. The acquisition enhances our capabilities in midstream and upstream pipeline engineering, design and field surveying services. Eagleton specializes in pipeline engineering, primarily providing professional services and resources to the oil, gas and petrochemical industries. The firm’s services cover the full life cycle of project planning and delivery, from conceptual studies and design to full turnkey engineering, procurement and construction solutions and operational support.

•On December 24, 2014, we acquired the assets of FMHC Corporation ("FMHC") headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. This acquisition enhances our ability to provide turnkey wireless communications site development, design, network deployment, construction, and related services to clients operating in the wireless telecommunications industry. 

•On December 20, 2013, we acquired Stobbarts Limited, a construction firm based in West Cumbria, United Kingdom. The acquisition enhances our capabilities in nuclear, decommissioning, construction and civil engineering.

•On December 13, 2013, we acquired Sinclair Knight Merz Management Pty Limited and Sinclair Knight Merz Holdings Limited (collectively, "SKM"), a provider of engineering, design, procurement, construction and project management services. Due to its size and complexities, more information about the SKM acquisition is provided throughout this report.

•On November 22, 2013, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of MARMAC Field Services, Inc. headquartered in Costa Mesa, California. The acquisition enhances our capabilities in pipeline engineering and design services; both geographically and by adding additional capabilities to serve the utility and gas industries. 

•On October 18, 2013, we acquired a 45% interest in Guimar Engenharia, a privately held engineering services and project management/construction management ("PMCM") company based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The acquisition represents Jacobs’ first significant investment in Brazil. Guimar has a broad client base and operations throughout Brazil, where it is a leading provider of PMCM services for clients in the pulp and paper, petroleum, chemicals, food and beverage, mining and minerals, building and infrastructure industries. 

•On October 14, 2013, we acquired substantially all the assets and liabilities of the Trompeter Group. This acquisition enhances our capabilities in advanced engineering services, maintenance support, 

Page 7
technical training services, and contingent workforce services to the automotive manufacturing industry. The business is headquartered in Detroit, Michigan.

•On August 30, 2013, our South African joint venture, Jacobs Matasis (Proprietary) Limited, acquired Ilitha Projects and Ilitha Staffing. Ilitha Projects provides management and Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Management (EPCM) services to clients in a broad range of market sectors, including oil and gas, refining, chemicals, power, nuclear, marine mining and metals. Ilitha Staffing supplies technical contract staff sourcing and management services with a strong emphasis on integration with the client’s culture and business practices. 

•Commencing on June 6, 2013, and through the end of fiscal 2015, we acquired further ownership interests in Consulting Engineering Services (India) Private Limited (“CES”), an infrastructure and civil engineering company headquartered in Delhi, India. As of the end of fiscal 2015, the Company's ownership interest in CES is 99.2%. CES provides a range of solutions in infrastructure development, planning, engineering, and construction management. 

•On May 28, 2013, we acquired Compass Technology Services, Inc. ("Compass"), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Compass is a provider of telecommunications professional and field services in the Southeastern U.S. and enhances our capabilities in wireless telecommunications infrastructure design and construction.

•In August 2012, we acquired a consulting project management business based in Sydney, Australia. The primary purpose of this acquisition was to expand our geographic presence and grow our infrastructure business in Australia.

•In December 2011, we acquired Unique World Pty Ltd. ("Unique World"), headquartered in Sydney, Australia. Unique World is an information management and knowledge management consultancy specializing in enabling technologies such as collaboration, business process automation, business intelligence, intranets, and portals. Unique World expands our capabilities in Australia to include such information technology ("IT") services, as well as expanding the client base to which we can offer these services.

•In November 2011, we acquired KlingStubbins, Inc., a 500-person firm headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania with offices located throughout the U.S. and China. KlingStubbins provides professional services in the areas of architecture, engineering, interiors, planning, and landscape architecture. The markets served by KlingStubbins include corporate/commercial, governmental, science and technology, higher education, mission critical, and interiors.

After we complete an acquisition, we move quickly to integrate the newly acquired operations. We typically assign senior operations personnel to manage the overall integration process with assistance from our sales, accounting, legal, IT, human resources, and risk management departments. Although integrating newly acquired businesses can be very challenging, the assimilation process is critical in order to assure (i) that our global businesses processes and systems are properly deployed throughout the newly-acquired entities and (ii) that we can begin to leverage off the acquired talents, skills, and expertise to grow our business and help our clients execute their capital programs. Newly-acquired businesses are generally not left as stand-alone entities within the Company’s internal reporting system. The businesses we acquire are typically folded in to existing operational organizations within the Company. For additional information regarding certain issues related to our acquisition strategy, please refer to Item 1A— Risk Factors below.

Financial Information About Segments

Although we describe our business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in terms of the various services we provide, the markets in which our clients operate, and the geographic areas in which we operate, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment pursuant to those accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). In making this determination, we considered the various economic characteristics of our operations, including: the nature of the services we provide, the nature of our internal processes for delivering and distributing those services, and the types of customers we have. In addition to the discussion that follows, please refer to Note 14 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Page 8
There is a high degree of similarity among the workforces employed across the categories of services we provide. For example, professionals in engineering and design services (i.e., services provided by persons who are degreed, and in certain circumstances licensed, such as engineers, architects, scientists, and economists) exist in all four service categories. In addition, there is a high degree of similarity among a significant component of the workforces we employ to perform construction and operations and maintenance ("O&M") projects. In providing construction and O&M services, we employ a large number of skilled craft labor personnel. These may include welders, pipe fitters, electricians, crane operators, and other personnel who work on very large capital projects (in the case of projects classified within the construction services category) or on smaller capital projects (in the case of maintenance projects classified within the O&M services category).

All of our offices use a matrix organizational structure. Our results, therefore, are dependent on groups representing technical disciplines (e.g., electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, cost engineering, etc.) supporting project management personnel (who maintain the relationship between our clients and us and are ultimately responsible for delivering projects to our clients safely, on time, and on budget). Additionally, our operating regions use common tools, policies, and procedures to manage and run their respective units. These include project review meetings, project performance evaluations, and project execution plans.

Each of the Company's operating regions provides most of the services the Company offers generally, and each of our operating regions includes in its customer base many of the same or similar clients as our other regions.

The use of technology throughout our organization is highly uniform. Whether it is computer-aided design and drafting (“CADD”) applications used by our engineering and design staff, or modeling programs used by the scientific and consulting staff, or scheduling, estimating, and cost control applications used by home-office personnel in support of our construction and maintenance activities, all of the service categories described above are equally affected by changes in technology as they occur in the economy at large.

Furthermore, the types of information and internal reports used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”), who is also the Company’s chief executive officer, and other members of management to monitor performance, evaluate results of operations, allocate resources, and otherwise manage the business support a single reportable segment. Accordingly, based on these similarities, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment for purposes of the disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we announced a reorganization of our operations around four global lines of business. This reorganization is intended to better serve our global clients, leverage our workforce, help streamline operations, and provide enhanced growth opportunities. The four global lines of business are: Petroleum & Chemicals, Buildings & Infrastructure, Aerospace & Technology, and Industrial. Each business unit has a president that reports directly to the Company's President & CEO. As part of the reorganization, certain support functions (i.e. Sales), which have been managed centrally for many years, will be embedded in the new business units and will report to the respective line of business presidents. The costs of other support functions (e.g., accounting, legal, human resources, and information technology) and certain other activities (e.g., global insurance) will either be assigned or allocated to each new business unit using a rationale method of assignment/allocation, or will remain an element of corporate general and administrative expenses. In addition, the Company has significantly modified its major cash incentive plan utilizing forecasted performance metrics aligned along the new lines of business. We are in the process of modifying our systems and work processes to report the results of these business units in an accurate and timely manner. We are also developing processes for accurately eliminating inter-unit revenue and profit. We expect to complete our system and other process changes so that we may accurately report operating results by line of business to the Company's President & CEO no later than the second quarter of fiscal 2016.

Page 9
Services Provided

As described above, the services we provide generally fall into the following four broad categories: Project Services; Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services; Construction services; and Operations and Maintenance services. 

The following table sets forth our revenues from each of our four service categories for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Project Services

We employ the engineering, architecture, interiors, design, planning, and related disciplines necessary to design and engineer modern process plants, buildings, infrastructure projects, technology and manufacturing facilities, consumer products manufacturing facilities, power plants and stations, pulp and paper plants, and other facilities.

We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services, including "safety in design". Through safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, taking those steps necessary to eliminate or mitigate injury and damage during the construction, start-up, testing and commissioning, and operations phases of a project.

In the area of construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients. We may act as program director, whereby we oversee, on the owner's behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of the project. Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting. 

Project Services also includes planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, cost engineering, project accounting, 

project delivery (quality), safety, and all other key support services needed for complete cradle-to-grave project delivery.

Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting Services

We employ the professional and technical skills and expertise with respect to a broad range of consulting services, including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-mandated qualification and validation requirements; and performing geological and metallurgical studies.

Also included in this service category are revenues relating to defense and aerospace-related programs. Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than other project services we provide, and may involve such tasks as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission-critical control systems; aerospace, testing, and propulsion systems and facilities; and other highly technical or scientific tasks.

Construction Services

In addition to the construction management services included under Project Services above, we provide traditional field construction services to private and public sector clients. We also provide modular construction consulting services. In the area of environmental remediation and restoration, we also provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients.

Historically, our field construction activities have been focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work. By focusing our construction efforts in this way, we attempt to minimize the risks associated with constructing complex projects based on designs prepared by third parties. The financial risk 

Page 10
to us of constructing complex assets based on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-price contracts; therefore, we generally avoid this type of project. However, we will pursue construction-only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe can result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume.

Operations and Maintenance Services

O&M refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. We provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on-site personnel. O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. 

Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain such sites as engine test facilities, weapons integration facilities, and high-tech simulation and verification centers. Such O&M contracts also frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services; utilities operations and maintenance services; property management and disposition services; and construction support services.

Within the environmental area, O&M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites.

Although the gross profit margins we realize from O&M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower. Also, O&M services offer us an opportunity for long-term relationships with clients. This aspect of O&M services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services.

The Industries and Markets in Which Our Clients Operate

We market our services to clients where the scope of work required by their capital projects and programs is within our expertise. Within each market, we may offer specialty services unique to the sector, or services which differentiate us from our competitors in the marketplace.

The following table sets forth our revenues from each of the various industry groups and markets in which our clients operate for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Chemicals and Polymers

Our clients in this sector rely on our extensive knowledge of and experience with feedstock synthesis, chemical synthesis, and polymerization, including advanced polymerization reactors and state-of-the-art, post-reactor processing techniques to help bring new products and new facilities to market quickly and economically. We apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging resources within our alliances and partnerships. Specialty services we provide to our clients in these industries include project finance structuring consulting, market analysis, facility appraisal, and procurement with global inspection capabilities.

Page 11
An important capability we offer our clients in the chemicals business is in the area of field services. We have contracts with major chemical producers worldwide to provide construction, on-site maintenance, and turnaround activities. Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years due to our focus on safety, value, and client satisfaction and lead us to numerous formal alliances.

Refining - Downstream

Our typical refining projects for global clients include new design and construction, revamps or expansions of existing plants, turnarounds, upgrades of individual process units within refineries, and long-term maintenance services. We also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring and support, and multi-client subscription services. 

Our modular construction consulting capabilities, asset management/maintenance services, and formal client alliances help differentiate us to customers operating in this industry. Using modular construction decreases congestion at the construction site and provides enhanced safety, cost, and project execution benefits in remote locations.

We also include power generation projects within our clients' refining and processing facilities, such as simple and combined cycle power projects, industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. In addition, we offer support in the procurement and commissioning of equipment.

National Government Programs

We categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to aerospace and defense programs or environmental programs for government entities.

Aerospace and Defense Programs

We provide an in-depth range of science, engineering, construction and technical support services to the aerospace and defense industry. Long-term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., NASA, the DoD, the U.S. Special Operations Command ("USSOCOM"), and the Australian Department of Defence. Specific to NASA is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems, including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. 

Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation services in computer, laboratory, facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems.

We have provided advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the U.S. and internationally. We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services and assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces, as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems.

We maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications. We also support the DoD in a number of information technology programs, including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and security solutions.

Environmental Programs

We provide environmental investigation, permitting, restoration, remediation, engineering, and site operations services to a number of European, North American, and Middle Eastern government agencies. Our projects include hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure; the preparation of feasibility studies and environmental investigations; environmental design; and remediation services on several national programs, as well as compliance with various national environmental policies.

Page 12
Additionally, we support our clients in such areas as pollution prevention assessments; underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation, monitoring and systems cleanup; long-term water quality management plans; and air quality planning and permitting. Much of this type of work is in support of large infrastructure projects that are underway in both Europe and in North America.

As a differentiating aspect of our support to our government clients, we provide asset management services in the form of long-term infrastructure operations and maintenance. Asset management also includes building closures that involve deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities. This is an integral part of our services for the U.S. Department of Energy.

Infrastructure

The strengths we offer our clients in this industry group include expertise in transportation, transit, aviation, water and wastewater, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, India, the Middle East, and Asia. Representative clients include national government departments and agencies in the U.S. and the U.K.; state departments of transportation within the U.S.; other regional and local agencies; and private industry freight transport firms. 

Transportation development/rehabilitation is a core competency of our infrastructure business. Typical projects include highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects where our interdisciplinary teams work independently or as an extension of the client's staff. Providing alternative financing methods has proven successful in Europe where there is privatization of public infrastructure systems.

In water infrastructure, we help public and private sector clients develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems. Emerging economies are investing heavily in water and wastewater systems, while governments in North America and Europe are addressing the challenges of drought and aging infrastructure. We also develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water flood defense projects. 

Oil & Gas - Upstream

As international oil companies develop reserves and try to maximize their existing resources, our expertise in a range of production methods, combined with our commitment to safety and strength in project management, helps us deliver a wide range of projects for oil and gas operators.

In the exploration and production market, our projects range from oil recovery through steam injection to gas treating, gas gathering, and gas storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream, utilizing new technologies such as Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage ("SAGD"). 

Typical projects for our clients in this sector involve the design and construction of projects that recover oil and gas, and include oil thermal recovery facilities either by in-situ means or oil sands mining, upgraders, pipelines, gas plants, and CO2 flood. These are typically large projects that may involve many of our offices and often include work-share with our Mumbai, India office as a value-added engineering center to reduce project costs.

We also provide substantial maintenance and modification services for aging oil and gas facilities around the world. In connection with the refining market, we also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring consulting services, and other support services. 

Buildings

We have planned, designed, and constructed buildings for a variety of clients and markets for more than 60 years. We

believe our global presence and understanding of contracting and delivery demands keep us in an excellent position to provide professional services worldwide. 

Our diversified client base encompasses both public and private sectors and relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the world's leading medical and research centers, and universities. We focus our efforts and resources in areas where capital spending initiatives drive demand, and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value-adding solutions. We also provide integrated facility management services (sometimes through joint ventures with third parties) for which we assume responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of clients.

Page 13
We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning for office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission-critical facilities, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, mixed-use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreation complexes. 

Advanced technology clients require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences. We offer total integrated design and construction management solutions to these projects, many of which are world leaders in their functions. 

We also have capabilities in the pharma-bio, data center, government intelligence, corporate headquarters/interiors, and science and technology-based education markets around the globe.

Our government building projects include large, multi-year programs in the U.S. and Europe. U.S. government agencies we serve include the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"); the General Services Administration ("GSA"); the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"); the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others. In the U.K., we are leading the Custodial Services' project management delivery program to upgrade the U.K. prison stock and also certain security-led programs such as upgrading works to the Palace of Westminster and some regional police authorities.

We are providing services to the DoD on military family housing; quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DoD's global re-basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC") program.

Industrial and Other

We provide a broad range of services to our clients operating in the power, pulp and paper, high-technology manufacturing, and food, beverage, and consumer products industries and markets.

Power

Global energy demand is expected to grow by nearly 50 percent over the next 25 years, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Significant capital spend in the power business is being driven by plant obsolescence and the need for utilities to comply with regulatory requirements and changes in environmental legislation. Our typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, asset lifetime extension projects, and emergency power generation stations. In addition to traditional engineering, we offer services in procurement and commissioning of equipment, as well as construction services for the power market including thermal, biomass, renewables, and nuclear energy facilities.

Pulp and Paper

The pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years, and several of our traditional pulp and paper clients have emerged as major consumer product companies. These clients have created new opportunities for us in non-traditional areas, such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products. Typical projects range from small mill projects to complex, multi-million-dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities.

Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, and our expertise also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for distribution and consumer use. Our pulp and paper capability extends through our offices in the U.S., U.K., France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico to clients worldwide. A significant portion of our work consists of assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry. We monitor all key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer compliance studies, permitting support, design of pollution control systems, and compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers.

High-Technology Manufacturing

We provide our core services for a variety of high tech manufacturing and test facilities, particularly for clients in the automotive and industrial industries. Typical automotive projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design-build programs of aero-acoustic wind tunnels, engine test facilities, acoustic enclosures, transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental, emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in-line and end-of-line 

Page 14
component test stands; and computer-based measurement and control systems. We also serve advanced technology and research facilities, including facilities supporting research in fusion and fission energy, nanoscale materials, and high-powered lasers and X-rays to support important research activities in the U.S., Europe, and the U.K. 

In addition, we perform projects for clients operating in the semiconductor industry. Projects in the semiconductor industry are typically more complex than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high-end technologies. Our projects range from on-site plant engineering and tool hookups to multi-million dollar state-of-the-art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce solar energy cells, microprocessors for computers, and other consumer electronic devices.

Food, Beverages, and Consumer Products

As a provider to the food, beverage, and consumer products supply chain, our global presence and capabilities allow us to help our clients with targeted expansion and new investments. Our food processing services include hygienic design, clean-in-place ("CIP") systems, heat transfer systems, material handling of liquids and solids, refrigeration, and compliance with government requirements. From facility design to raw materials processing to converting, packaging, and distribution, our vast depth of expertise helps our clients do just that. Our knowledge of food and beverage processing results in plants that are productive, efficient, and economical.

Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology

We provide our pharmaceuticals and biotechnology clients single-point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation ("EPCMV") project delivery, enabling us to execute the industry's largest capital programs on a single-responsibility basis. Typical projects in this sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full-scale biotechnology production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities.

As companies in this industry continue to experience pressure to decrease product time-to-market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction, as well as other consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently.

Regulatory compliance, state-of-the-art technology, and increased efficiencies are critical issues to our clients in these industries. We have expertise in containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off-the-site design and fabrication of facility modules, as well as vaccine production and purification, and aseptic processing.

Mining and Minerals

Our mining and minerals business targets the non-ferrous and ferrous metal markets, precious metals, energy minerals (uranium, coal, oil sands), and industrial and fertilizer minerals (mineral sands, borates, trona, phosphates and potash). We work with many of the resources companies undertaking new and existing facility upgrades and process plant developments. We offer project management; front-end studies; full EPCM capabilities; and completions, commissioning and start-up services specializing in new plant construction, brownfield expansions, and sustaining capital and maintenance projects.

For our mining and mineral clients, we provide the industry proprietary sulfuric acid production technology through our Chemetics® product - an important synergistic by-product of the smelting process and a key consumable in mines employing ore leaching technology. We are also able to deliver value to our mining clients by providing distinctive adjacent capabilities such as infrastructure and major equipment and materials to support their mining operations.

By focusing on mitigating our clients' resource risk, we are able to address challenges of tight labor markets by providing a reliable and familiar labor pool for their ongoing projects. We host local offices in the most active mining geographies (South America, Australia, Canada, India, and South Africa), and can thereby effectively help our clients improve their project delivery and resource availability.

Backlog

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the 

Page 15
amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings.

Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. For additional information regarding our backlog including those risk factors specific to backlog, please refer to Item 1A — Risk Factors, and Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Our backlog at October 2, 2015 and September 26, 2014 was $18.8 billion and $18.4 billion, respectively. Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors below, we estimate that approximately 7.3 billion, or 38.6%, of total backlog at October 2, 2015 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.

Significant Customers

The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Given the percentage of total revenue derived from the U.S. federal government, the loss of U.S. federal government agencies as customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. For more information on risks relating to our government contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors below.

It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Company’s total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass-through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For additional information regarding certain risks related to our customer concentration, please refer to Item 1A — Risk Factors below. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. For fiscal 2015, approximately 40.9% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which are described under Item 1A - Risk Factors below.

Contracts

While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into two broad categories: cost-reimbursable and fixed-price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A — Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.

Page 16
When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost-Reimbursable Contracts

Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost-reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price.

Fixed-Price Contracts

Fixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract, and, as such, the Company has rarely entered into individual lump sum bid contracts that are material to its financial results. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn-key construction.

Competition

With respect to each of the four broad categories of services we provide, we compete with a large number of companies across the world. Typically, no single company or companies dominate the market in which we provide any such services. We compete based on the following factors, among others: price of services, technical capabilities, reputation for quality, safety record, availability of qualified personnel, ability to timely perform work, and willingness to accept project-related risk. For more information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A—Risk Factors below. 

Employees

At October 2, 2015, we had approximately 49,900 full-time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of October 2, 2015, there were approximately 14,100 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth under the captions "The Board of Directors and its Committees - Nominees," "The board of Directors and its Committees - Continuing Directors," and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting 

Page 17
Compliance" in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year and is incorporated herein by reference.

The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company. Messrs. Hagen, Kremer, Stassi and Sanders as well as Ms. Carmody have each served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years. Below is additional information on the executive officers.

Mr. Demetriou joined the Company in August 2015. Mr. Demetriou served as Chairman and CEO of Aleris Corporation for 14 years, a global downstream aluminum producer based in Cleveland, Ohio. Over the course of his career, he has gained broad experience with companies in a range of industries including Metals, Specialty Chemicals, Oil & Gas, Manufacturing and Fertilizers.

Mr. Berryman joined the Company in December 2014. Mr. Berryman served as EVP and CFO for five years at International Flavors and Fragrances Inc., an S&P 500 company and leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Prior to that, he spent 25 years at Nestlé in a number of finance roles including treasury, mergers & acquisitions, strategic planning, and control.

Mr. Mandel joined the Company in February 2011 through the acquisition of certain operating companies comprising Aker Solutions ASA, a global provider of products, systems and services to the oil and gas industry. Mr. Mandel served in various senior management roles with Aker Solutions ASA since first joining them in 1995.

Mr. Rizzuto was Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of SKM from October 2011 until the company's acquisition by Jacobs in December 2013. From 1997 to 2011 he served in a number of global operational leadership roles within SKM. As previously announced Mr. Rizzuto will be leaving the company in December 2015 as part of the Company's reorganization along global lines of business.

Mr. Sanders joined the company in June 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in May 2014. Mr. Sanders previously served as Vice President, Controller of the Company for over 10 years with responsibility for various finance, tax, accounting, and other functions within the Company.

Ms. Sundberg joined the Company in April 2013. Ms. Sundberg served as the Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Ethics at Arizona Public Services Company, Arizona's largest electric utility company, from November 2007 to April 2013. From 1998 to 2007 she served in a number of global HR leadership roles with American Express.

Mr. Tyler joined the Company in June 2013. He previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Sanmina Corporation, a global electronics manufacturing services provider from April 2007 to June 2013, and Chief Legal and Administrative Officer of Gateway, Inc., a computer hardware company, from January 2004 to April 2007.

Ms. Carmody's last day with the Company was October 2, 2015.

Page 18
Available Information

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website at www.jacobs.com.

Page 19
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS