Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Description of the Company and Business Segments  

Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices, clinical and medical research laboratories, and by patients at home under physician supervision.  

The company operates in two segments: BioScience and Medical Products.  

The BioScience business processes recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; and biosurgery products. Additionally, the BioScience business is investing in new disease areas, including oncology, as well as emerging technology platforms, including gene therapy and biosimilars.  

The Medical Products business manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation anesthetics. The business also provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies. In addition, the Medical Products business provides products and services to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure, along with other renal therapies, which business was enhanced through the 2013 acquisition of Gambro AB (Gambro). The Medical Products business now offers a comprehensive portfolio to meet the needs of patients across the treatment continuum, including technologies and therapies for peritoneal dialysis (PD), in-center hemodialysis (HD), home HD (HHD), continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) and additional dialysis services.  

Baxter has approximately 66,000 employees and conducts business in over 100 countries. The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues outside the United States, and maintains over 50 manufacturing facilities and over 100 distribution facilities in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada.  

Planned Spin-Off of Biopharmaceuticals Business  

In March 2014, Baxter announced plans to create two separate, independent global healthcare companies – one focused on developing and marketing innovative biopharmaceuticals and the other on life-saving medical products. The transaction is intended to take the form of a tax-free distribution in the United States to Baxter shareholders of more than 80% of the publicly traded stock in the new biopharmaceuticals company. The transaction is expected to be completed by mid-year 2015, subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions, including final approval by the Baxter Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable opinion and/or rulings in the United States with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction, and the effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement that has been filed with the SEC. Upon separation, the historical results of the biopharmaceuticals business will be presented as discontinued operations.  

Vaccines Discontinued Operations  

In December 2014, the company completed the divestiture of the commercial vaccines business and entered into a separate agreement for the sale of the remainder of the Vaccines franchise, which is expected to be completed  

21  

Table of Contents 

 in the first quarter of 2015. As a result of the divestitures, the operating results of the Vaccines franchise have been reflected as discontinued operations for 2014, 2013, and 2012. Refer to Note 2 for additional information regarding the presentation of the Vaccines franchise. Unless otherwise stated, financial results herein reflect continuing operations only.  

Financial Results  

Baxter’s 2014 results reflect the company’s success in meeting its financial objectives while navigating a challenging and complex macroeconomic environment. Baxter has continued to improve operational and commercial execution, while deriving significant benefits from bringing products and therapies to various markets more effectively. Further, the company has made investments to further advance the product pipeline and position Baxter for future growth and success. The company generated significant cash flows in 2014 while maintaining a disciplined capital allocation strategy of returning value to shareholders through both share repurchases and increased dividends.  

Baxter’s global net sales totaled $16.7 billion in 2014, an increase of 11% over 2013, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of two percentage points. The acquisition of Gambro resulted in net sales totaling $1.6 billion in 2014 compared to $513 million in 2013, from the September 6, 2013 acquisition date; the acquisition contributed seven percentage points towards total Baxter net sales growth. International sales totaled $9.7 billion in 2014, an increase of 13% compared to 2013, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of three percentage points. Sales in the United States totaled $7.0 billion in 2014, an increase of 9% over 2013. 

Baxter’s income from continuing operations for 2014 totaled $1.9 billion, or $3.56 per diluted share, compared to $2.0 billion, or $3.66 per diluted share, in the prior year. Income from continuing operations in 2014 included special items which resulted in a net reduction to income from continuing operations by $737 million, or $1.34 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations in 2013 included special items which resulted in a net reduction to income from continuing operations by $565 million, or $1.03 per diluted share. The company’s special items are discussed further in the Results of Operations section below.  

Baxter’s financial results included research and development (R&D) expenses totaling $1.4 billion in 2014, which reflects the acceleration of R&D spending to advance late-stage development programs and product approvals in both developed and emerging markets, while also focusing on enhancing the company’s early-stage and exploratory R&D. During the year, Baxter continued to transform the new product pipeline into a robust portfolio of products and therapies that improve the quality of care and address key high-potential areas of unmet medical need. Additionally, R&D expenses in 2014 included upfront and milestone payments of $217 million related to the company’s various collaboration arrangements.  

The company’s financial position remains strong, with cash flows from operations totaling $3.2 billion in 2014. The company has continued to execute on its disciplined capital allocation framework, which is designed to optimize shareholder value creation through targeted capital investments, share repurchases and dividends, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives as discussed in Strategic Objectives below.  

Capital investments totaled $1.9 billion in 2014 as the company continues to invest across its businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions in the BioScience and Medical Products segments. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2014 were focused on projects that improve production efficiency and enhance manufacturing capabilities to support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets.  

The company also continued to return value to its shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. During 2014, the company repurchased eight million shares of common stock for $550 million, and paid cash dividends to its shareholders totaling $1.1 billion.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Strategic Objectives  

Baxter continues to focus on several key objectives to successfully execute its long-term strategy to achieve sustainable growth and deliver shareholder value. Baxter’s diversified and broad portfolio of products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions and its global presence are core components of the company’s strategy to achieve these objectives. The company continues to focus on four key strategic growth vectors: advancing the core portfolio globally, driving innovation through the R&D pipeline, enhancing growth through acquisitions and collaborations, and developing unique public-private partnerships.  

Advancing the Core Portfolio Globally  

Baxter is well-positioned in the market, despite challenging global economic conditions, due to the breadth and diversity of the company’s portfolio in both BioScience and Medical Products. In the BioScience business, the company’s products treat bleeding disorders and a range of immune disorders. The Medical Products business offers innovative products for treatment of end-stage renal disease and other therapies and technologies supporting the work of hospital pharmacies and serving the needs of patients in acute care settings.  

While Baxter is a leader in several of the markets noted above, there is significant potential to expand across the company’s core portfolio by improving access to Baxter’s products and therapies globally.  

Baxter remains committed to meeting patient demands by enhancing its manufacturing capabilities in both the BioScience and Medical Products businesses. In the BioScience business, the company made progress in the construction of a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Covington, Georgia, which is expected to begin commercial production in 2018. In the Medical Products business, the company is expanding its capacity in several key markets and product areas. These include investments in Asia and at the North Cove, North Carolina, facility to support production of PD and IV solutions. Additionally, the company is executing expansion plans at the Opelika, Alabama, facility to meet the growing global demand for dialyzers.  

Driving Innovation through the R&D Pipeline  

R&D innovation and scientific productivity continue to be key strategic priorities for Baxter. Key developments in 2014 included the following:  

Product Approvals and Launches  

   •    United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and launch of BAXJECT III, a new reconstitution system for ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant)], which reduces the number of steps in the reconstitution process for hemophilia A patients and caregivers. The company has also received approval in Europe with a planned launch in 2015.  

   •    FDA approval and launch of HYQVIA [Immune Globulin Infusion 10% (Human) with Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase]. HYQVIA is the first FDA approved subcutaneous treatment for adult patients with primary immunodeficiency with a dosing regimen requiring only one infusion up to once per month and one injection site per infusion to deliver a full therapeutic dose of immune globulin.  

   •    FDA approval and launch of OBIZUR [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Porcine Sequence] for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired hemophilia A, a very rare and potentially life-threatening acute bleeding disorder.  

   •    FDA approval extending the use of RIXUBIS [Coagulation Factor IX (Recombinant)] to children with hemophilia B, for routine prophylactic treatment, control and prevention of bleeding episodes, and perioperative management. The company also received regulatory approvals in several markets outside the United States including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, and Japan for either adults (over the age of 12) or both pediatric and adult patients.  

23  

Table of Contents 

   •    FDA approval of FLEXBUMIN 5%, expanding the FLEXBUMIN product portfolio, which is the first and only preparation of human albumin to be packaged in a flexible plastic container, to include both 5% in a 250 mL solution and 25% in 50 and 100 mL solutions.  

   •    European CE marking of myPKFiT, a web-based individualized dosing device for prophylactic treatment of hemophilia A with ADVATE. The device allows physicians to calculate personalized ADVATE treatment regimens based on patient information and individual pharmacokinetic profiles.  

   •    Regulatory approval for ADVATE in Turkey and Russia.  

   •    FDA 510(k) clearance for the next-generation SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump, which increases capacity of the master drug library and enables a hospital to maintain a customized in-house library of facility-defined dosing parameters for infusions, minimizing the likelihood of drug error during care.  

Other Developments  

   •    Submission of biologics license applications (BLA) to FDA for the approval of BAX 855, an investigational, extended half-life recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) treatment for hemophilia A based on ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant)], and BAX111, the first highly-purified recombinant von Willebrand Factor (rVWF), as a treatment for patients with von Willebrand disease, the most common type of inherited bleeding disorder.  

   •    European regulatory approval of a new manufacturing facility in Singapore for the production of recombinant proteins, including ADVATE.  

   •    Announcement of plans to form a new global innovation and R&D center in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which positions the company to accelerate innovation by building on its pipeline in core areas of expertise, strengthen and build upon R&D collaborations with partners in new and emerging biotechnology areas, and optimize R&D productivity while enhancing patient care globally.  

Enhancing Growth through Acquisitions and Collaborations  

Baxter has accelerated its pace of acquisitions and collaborations in recent years. Key developments in 2014 included the following:  

   •    The acquisition of all the outstanding membership interests in Chatham Therapeutics, LLC (Chatham Therapeutics), obtaining Chatham Therapeutics’ gene therapy programs related to the development and commercialization of treatments for hemophilia.  

   •    The acquisition of all the outstanding membership interests in AesRx, LLC (AesRx), obtaining AesRx’s program related to the development and commercialization of treatments for sickle cell disease.  

   •    The acquisition of all of the outstanding shares in IC Net International Ltd, a leader in surveillance and case management software used in hospitals, which enhances Baxter’s unique expertise in hospital pharmacy operations.  

   •    The execution of an exclusive collaboration agreement with Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Merrimack) relating to the development and commercialization of MM-398 (nanoliposomal irinotecan injection), also known as “nal-IRI”, across all markets with the exception of the United States and Taiwan.  

   •    The execution of an exclusive distribution agreement with Rockwell Medical, Inc. (RMI) for its leading HD concentrates in the United States and other select markets, which enhances Baxter’s comprehensive range of therapeutic options across home, in-center and hospital settings for patients with end-stage renal disease.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Baxter has also benefitted from the continued integration of Gambro following the 2013 acquisition. The combination of Gambro’s dialysis products and therapies and Baxter’s own global leadership in home-based PD therapy provides patients and providers a comprehensive renal portfolio and global array of cross-therapeutic options.  

During 2014, Baxter continued to make equity investments in companies developing high-potential technologies through Baxter Ventures, a strategic initiative established in 2011 to invest in early-stage companies developing products and therapies to accelerate innovation and growth for the company.  

The company expects to continue to further supplement its internal R&D activities and pursue accelerated growth with its investment in other business development opportunities, including acquisitions, collaborations and alliances, that complement our current businesses, enhance our portfolio, and leverage our core strengths.  

Public-Private Partnerships  

In addition to the company’s business development activities, Baxter is focused on pursuing innovation through unique business models and the development of public-private partnerships. During 2014, Baxter made advances in its existing public-private partnership with Hemobrás to provide hemophilia patients in Brazil greater access to rFVIII therapy for the treatment of hemophilia A. Baxter is Brazil’s exclusive provider of rFVIII and will facilitate a technology transfer to support local manufacturing capacity and technical expertise.  

In 2014, Baxter entered into an arrangement with Singapore’s Changi General Hospital to form a new Centre of Excellence in Compounding Sciences to drive process and clinical innovations to meet increasing needs for compounded sterile products while improving quality, efficiency and supporting the ongoing shifting of care delivery from the hospital to the community setting and the patient’s home.  

Baxter is also making progress on a new facility in Amata City, Rayong province, Thailand. The plant will support growing demand for PD therapy in response to Thailand’s PD First policy. The new plant is expected to be fully operational in 2016.  

Responsible Corporate Citizen  

The company strives for continued growth and profitability, while furthering its focus on acting as a responsible corporate citizen. At Baxter, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of the company’s wide-ranging stakeholder base. Baxter’s comprehensive sustainability program is focused on areas where the company is uniquely positioned to make a positive impact. Priorities include providing employees a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace, fostering a culture that drives integrity, strengthening access to healthcare, enhancing math and science education, and driving environmental performance across the product life cycle including development, manufacturing and transport. Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation provide financial support and product donations in support of critical needs, from assisting underserved communities to providing emergency relief for countries experiencing natural disasters.  

Throughout 2014 the company continued to implement a range of water conservation strategies and facility-based energy saving initiatives. In the area of product stewardship and life cycle management, Baxter is pursuing efforts such as sustainable design and reduced packaging. Baxter is also responding to the challenges of climate change through innovative greenhouse gas emissions-reduction programs, such as shifting to less carbon-intensive energy sources in manufacturing and transport.  

Risk Factors  

The company’s ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on the company’s ability to manage within an increasingly competitive and regulated environment and to address the other risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

25  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Special Items  

The following table provides a summary of the company’s special items and the related impact by line item on the company’s results of continuing operations for 2014, 2013, and 2012.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Intangible asset amortization expense is identified as a special item to facilitate an evaluation of current and past operating performance, particularly in terms of cash returns, and is similar to how management internally assesses performance. Upfront and milestone payments related to collaborations that have been expensed as R&D are uncertain and often result in a different payment and expense recognition pattern than internal R&D activities and therefore are typically treated as special items. Additional special items are identified above because they are highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company’s  

26  

Table of Contents 

 reported operations for a period. Management believes that providing the separate impact of the above items on the company’s GAAP results may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

In 2014, 2013 and 2012, the company’s results were impacted by costs associated with the company’s execution of certain strategies to optimize its organizational and overall cost structure on a global basis. These actions included streamlining the company’s international operations, rationalizing its manufacturing facilities, improving its general and administrative infrastructure, re-aligning certain R&D activities and cancelling certain R&D programs. The company recorded business optimization charges of $83 million, $200 million, and $150 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. The 2014 and 2013 business optimization charges were partially offset by adjustments of $64 million and $20 million, respectively, for reserves that are no longer probable of being utilized. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding these charges and related reserves.  

In 2014, the company recorded a charge of $93 million for SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump product remediation efforts, partially offset by a benefit of $25 million for an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves. In 2013, the company’s results included total charges of $17 million, primarily related to remediation efforts associated with modifications to the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump in conjunction with re-filing for 510(k) clearance. In 2012, the company recognized a net benefit of $23 million primarily related to an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserve when the company substantially completed its recall activities in the United States. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding these charges and related reserves.  

In 2014, the company recorded total charges of $144 million primarily related to the integration of Gambro. In 2013, the company’s results included total charges of $255 million primarily related to the acquisition and integration of Gambro and losses from the derivative instruments used to hedge the anticipated foreign currency cash outflows for the planned acquisition of Gambro. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding the acquisition of Gambro.  

In 2014, the company recorded separation-related costs of $167 million for the planned separation of Baxter’s biopharmaceutical and medical products businesses.  

In 2014, the company recorded total charges of $262 million resulting from $217 million in upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements as well as a $45 million other-than-temporary impairment loss related to Baxter’s holdings in the common stock of one of its collaboration partners. The company’s results in 2013 and 2012 included total charges of $103 million and $128 million, respectively, primarily related to upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding the company’s collaboration arrangements.  

In 2014, the company’s results included a net expense of $115 million primarily related to a $124 million increase in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent payment liabilities, partially offset by $9 million in third-party recoveries and reversals of prior tax and legal reserves. In 2013, the company’s results included a net expense of $89 million related to tax and legal reserves associated with tax and VAT matters in Turkey and existing class-action and other related litigation. In 2012, the company recorded gains of $91 million related to a decrease in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent payment liabilities. Refer to Note 10 for further information regarding the change in estimated fair value of contingent payment liabilities.  

In 2014, the company recorded a charge of $29 million in marketing and administrative expenses to account for an additional year of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service.  

27  

Table of Contents 

In 2012, the company recorded total charges of $170 million in marketing and administrative expenses primarily related to pension settlement charges and other pension-related items. Refer to Note 13 for further information regarding the pension settlement charges.  

Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales during the year ended December 31, 2014 included $1.6 billion in Gambro sales compared to $513 million in 2013, from the September 6, 2013 acquisition date, which favorably impacted total sales growth by seven percentage points at actual currency rates and eight percentage points on a constant currency basis. During the year ended December 31, 2013, Gambro sales favorably impacted total sales growth by four percentage points at both actual currency rates and on a constant currency basis. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding the Gambro acquisition.  

Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by two percentage points during the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the prior year principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, Japanese Yen, Swedish Krona and certain other currencies. Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by one percentage point during the year ended December 31, 2013 principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Japanese Yen and certain other currencies.  

The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. The company believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

Franchise Net Sales Reporting  

BioScience  

The BioScience segment includes three commercial franchises: Hemophilia, BioTherapeutics and BioSurgery.  

   •    Hemophilia includes sales of recombinant and plasma-derived hemophilia products (primarily factor VIII and factor IX).  

   •    BioTherapeutics includes sales of the company’s plasma-based therapies to treat alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions.  

28  

Table of Contents 

   •    BioSurgery consists of biological products and medical devices used in surgical procedures for hemostasis, tissue sealing, adhesion prevention, as well as hard and soft tissue repair and microsurgery products.  

The following is a summary of net sales by franchise in the BioScience segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the BioScience segment increased 7% and 5% in 2014 and 2013, respectively (with an unfavorable foreign currency impact of one percentage point in 2014 and no significant foreign currency impact in 2013). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Hemophilia franchise, sales growth in 2014 was driven by strong global demand for the company’s leading recombinant factor VIII therapy, ADVATE, which contributed approximately seven percentage points. The company’s sales also benefitted from the expanded prophylaxis indication and strong global demand for its plasma-based inhibitor bypass therapy, FEIBA, which contributed approximately three percentage points in 2014, as well as the launch of new products, such as RIXUBIS, a recombinant factor IX therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B patients. We expect growth in the Hemophilia franchise to moderate in 2015 as we expect increased competition from new entrants including a competitor that launched an extended half-life recombinant FVIII therapy in the United States during the third quarter of 2014. The company submitted a BLA for BAX 855, the company’s own investigational extended half-life factor VIII treatment for hemophilia A, to FDA in the fourth quarter of 2014 following positive topline results from the phase III clinical trial. In addition, the company expects long-term growth in the Hemophilia franchise, driven by strong underlying global demand, further penetration in markets outside the United States, new multi-year tenders, and new product launches including OBIZUR for acquired hemophilia A. Sales growth in 2013 was driven by strong global demand for ADVATE, which contributed approximately six percentage points, in addition to increased sales of FEIBA and shipments to Brazil as part of Baxter’s ongoing partnership with Hemobrás.  

   •    In the BioTherapeutics franchise, sales growth in 2014 was driven by strong global demand for the company’s albumin therapies as well as immune globulin therapies including GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)]. Immune globulin sales were favorably impacted by the fourth quarter introduction of HYQVIA, a subcutaneous immune globulin treatment for adult patients with primary immunodeficiency, in the United States. Sales growth in 2013 was driven by immunoglobulin therapies resulting from improved product availability and accelerated demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID, albumin and Alpha-1 treatments. Sales growth was partially offset in 2013 by lower international sales as a result of an exit from certain markets due to previous supply constraints.  

   •    In the BioSurgery franchise, sales growth in 2014 and 2013 was driven primarily by global demand for the company’s surgical sealants TISSEEL and FLOSEAL. Sales growth in 2013 was also favorably impacted by the acquisition of Synovis Life Technologies, Inc. (Synovis).  

29  

Table of Contents 

Medical Products  

The Medical Products segment includes four commercial franchises: Fluid Systems, Renal, Specialty Pharmaceuticals, and BioPharma Solutions.  

   •    Fluid Systems principally includes IV solutions, infusion pumps, administration sets and premixed and the oncology drug cyclophosphamide.  

   •    Renal consists of therapies to treat end-stage renal disease, including PD, HD, and HHD and therapies to treat acute kidney injuries, including CRRT. The Renal franchise includes the results of Gambro since the acquisition date of September 6, 2013. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.  

   •    Specialty Pharmaceuticals principally includes nutrition and anesthesia products.  

   •    BioPharma Solutions principally includes sales from the pharmaceutical partnering business and pharmacy compounding services.  

The following is a summary of net sales by franchise in the Medical Products segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the Medical Products segment increased 15% and 9% in 2014 and 2013, respectively (with an unfavorable foreign currency impact of one percentage point in both 2014 and 2013). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Fluid Systems franchise, sales growth in 2014 was driven by increased sales and favorable pricing of cyclophosphamide (a generic oncology drug) in the United States, which contributed approximately three percentage points, as well as price improvements and strong U.S. demand for the company’s IV solutions. A generic competitor for cyclophosphamide entered the U.S. market during the fourth quarter of 2014 and the company expects additional competitors in the coming months, which is anticipated to substantially impact pricing and demand for Baxter’s product. U.S. sales for cyclophosphamide in 2014 totaled approximately $450 million. Sales growth in 2013 was primarily driven by increased sales of cyclophosphamide, which contributed approximately six percentage points, as well as strong demand for IV solutions. Sales growth in both 2014 and 2013 was partially offset by an expected decline in SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump sales due to suspension of sales to new accounts commencing with the receipt of an FDA Warning Letter in April 2013.  

   •    In the Renal franchise, Gambro revenues totaled $1.6 billion in 2014 compared to $513 million from the September 6, 2013 acquisition date through December 31, 2013. Excluding the impact of Gambro, sales remained flat at actual currency rates and increased 2% on a constant currency basis. Sales growth in 2014 was driven by a higher number of PD patients in the United States and emerging markets, which contributed approximately four percentage points to sales growth. This growth was partially offset by the divestiture of Baxter’s legacy CRRT business in the first quarter of 2014. Excluding the impact of Gambro, sales in 2013 increased 2% at actual currency rates and 4% on a constant currency basis driven by growth in the number of PD patients in the United States and emerging markets, which contributed approximately four percentage points. This growth was partially offset by lower HD sales.  

30  

Table of Contents 

   •    In the Specialty Pharmaceuticals franchise, sales growth in 2014 was driven by increased international sales of anesthetics products as well as strong U.S. demand for nutritional therapies. Sales growth in 2013 was driven by strong global sales of anesthetics, which was partially offset by lower sales of nutrition products due to supplier shortages of distributed vitamins and lipids.  

   •    In the BioPharma Solutions franchise, sales growth in 2014 was driven by higher pharmacy compounding revenues. Sales declined in 2013 as a result of delayed shipments from the company’s Bloomington, Indiana facility, which was partially offset by an improvement in sales during the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result of the timing of orders and shipments as supply constraints were alleviated.  

Gross Margin and Expense Ratios  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross Margin  

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 1.5, 1.8 and 1.0 percentage points on the gross margin percentage in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the gross margin percentage was unfavorably impacted by 1.1 percentage points in 2014 as a result of the integration of the lower margin Gambro business. Other unfavorable impacts include foreign currency, expedited freight for PD solutions, and manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from lower production volumes as the company continues to make investments to enhance its operations, quality systems and processes. The unfavorable impacts from these factors were partially offset by improved product mix within the BioScience segment, lower pension expense and benefits from the company’s business optimization initiatives.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the gross margin percentage was unfavorably impacted by 0.5 percentage points in 2013 as a result of the integration of the lower margin Gambro business. Other unfavorable impacts include foreign currency, increased pension expense, government austerity measures and the realization of additional costs associated with modifications and the ramp-up of production at the company’s Los Angeles fractionation facilities. The unfavorable impacts from these factors were offset by improved product mix and price improvements.  

Marketing and Administrative Expenses  

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 1.8, 2.1 and 1.7 percentage points on the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2014 was unfavorably impacted as a result of inclusion of Gambro’s operations, the company’s select investments to support new product launches in the BioScience segment, and incremental freight and logistical expenses to support the strong demand for IV solutions. Offsetting the unfavorable impacts in 2014 were savings from the company’s continued focus on controlling discretionary spending, lower pension expense and benefits from the company’s business optimization initiatives.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2013 was unfavorably impacted as a result of inclusion of Gambro’s operations, increased pension expense, and select  

31  

Table of Contents 

 investments and spending on marketing and promotional programs for new product launches and to enhance the company’s global presence in international markets, partially offset by the company’s focus on controlling discretionary spending.  

Pension Plan Expense  

Fluctuations in pension plan expense impacted the company’s gross margin and expense ratios. Pension plan expense decreased $88 million in 2014 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of actuarial losses.  

Pension plan expense decreased in 2013 as 2012 expense included a charge of $168 million primarily related to the settlement of certain U.S. pension obligations. Excluding the impact of the 2012 settlement charge, pension plan expense increased $70 million in 2013 due to lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations and an increase in amortization of actuarial losses.  

Business Optimization Items  

The company has implemented certain business optimization initiatives in an effort to streamline its international operations, rationalize its manufacturing facilities, enhance its general and administrative infrastructure and re-align certain R&D activities. The company estimates that business optimization activities from 2011 through 2013 have resulted in cumulative savings of approximately $0.30 per diluted share as of December 31, 2014. The company expects additional savings of approximately $0.09 per diluted share as the programs are fully implemented through 2016. The savings from these actions will impact cost of sales, marketing and administrative expenses and R&D expenses, and benefit both the BioScience and Medical Products segments. Refer to Note 7 for additional information regarding the company’s business optimization initiatives.  

In 2014, the company recorded charges of $83 million and expects savings of approximately $0.05 per diluted share as the programs are fully implemented through 2016.  

Research and Development  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

R&D expenses increased in both 2014 and 2013. The increase in both periods was driven by contributions in the Medical Products segment from the acquisition of Gambro and additional investments in renal therapies as well as new investments in the BioScience segment to advance programs across the R&D pipeline, particularly in the areas of hematology, oncology and immunology. Additionally, R&D expenses related to upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements increased to $217 million in 2014 from $103 million in 2013. Refer to the discussion under Strategic Objectives above for additional detail.  

Net Interest Expense  

Net interest expense increased by $17 million in 2014 and $41 million in 2013. The increase in 2014 was principally driven by an increase in debt from the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in June 2013, which was partially offset by the maturity of $350 million of 4.0% senior unsecured notes in March 2014, and the company’s interest rate swap hedging activities. The increase in 2013 was principally driven by an increase in debt from the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in August 2012 and the above mentioned $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in June 2013. Refer to Note 3 for a summary of the components of net interest expense for 2014, 2013 and 2012.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Other Expense (Income), Net  

Other expense (income), net was expense of $123 million in 2014, income of $9 million in 2013 and income of $155 million in 2012. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, during 2014 the company recorded $84 million of income related to equity method investments, which primarily represented gains from the sale of certain investments as well as distributions from funds that sold portfolio companies.  

Also included in other expense (income), net were amounts related to foreign currency fluctuations, principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in a foreign currency.  

Pre-Tax Income from Continuing Operations  

Refer to Note 17 for a summary of financial results by segment. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting the segments’ financial results.  

BioScience  

Pre-tax income from continuing operations decreased 12% in 2014 and increased 3% in 2013. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2014 were charges of $217 million related to certain upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements, $26 million related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, $45 million related to an other-than-temporary impairment loss associated with Baxter’s holdings in the common stock of one of its collaboration partners, and a $124 million loss related to an increase in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent payment liabilities. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2013 were charges of $78 million related to upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2012 were charges of $123 million related to certain upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements and a gain of $38 million related to a decrease in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent payment liabilities.  

Excluding the impact of the above items, pre-tax income from continuing operations increased 2% in 2014 primarily due to sales growth of higher margin products, and was partially offset by increased spending on marketing and promotional programs as well as R&D investments and the impact of foreign currency.  

Excluding the impact of the above items, pre-tax income from continuing operations increased 3% in 2013 primarily due to sales growth of higher margin products, partially offset by increased spending on marketing and promotional programs.  

Medical Products  

Pre-tax income decreased 6% in 2014 and 12% in 2013. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2014 were charges of $93 million primarily related to product remediation efforts associated with the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump and Gambro acquisition and integration costs of $120 million. Additionally, a benefit of $25 million was recorded for an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves as the company refined its expectations based on the progress of remediation activities in Canada. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2013 were charges of $16 million primarily related to remediation efforts associated with modifications to the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump in conjunction with re-filing for 510(k) clearance, $25 million related to an upfront payment associated with one of the company’s collaboration arrangements, and Gambro acquisition and integration-related costs of $192 million. Included in pre-tax income from continuing operations during 2012 was a gain of $53 million related to a decrease in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent payment liabilities as well as a benefit of $23 million related to an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves when the company substantially completed its recall activities in the United States.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Excluding the impact of the above items, pre-tax income from continuing operations decreased 8% in 2014. The decrease was driven by product mix, expedited freight for PD solutions, and manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from lower production volumes as the company continues to make investments to enhance quality systems and processes. The decrease was partially offset by improved performance in the Fluid Systems and Specialty Pharmaceuticals franchises  

Excluding the impact of the above items, pre-tax income in 2013 increased by 7% primarily due to a favorable impact of sales growth of higher margin products and the favorable impact from foreign currency.  

Corporate and other  

Certain income and expense amounts are not allocated to a segment. These amounts are detailed in the table in Note 17 and primarily include net interest expense, foreign exchange fluctuations (principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in foreign currency) and the majority of the foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, stock compensation expense, non-strategic investments and related income and expense, certain employee benefit plan costs as well as certain nonrecurring gains, losses, and other charges (such as business optimization and asset impairments).  

Income Taxes  

Effective Income Tax Rate  

The effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 20.2% in 2014, 21.0% in 2013, and 19.6% in 2012. The company anticipates that the effective income tax rate for continuing operations, calculated in accordance with GAAP, will be approximately 21.5% in 2015, excluding any impact from additional audit developments or other special items.  

The company’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate each year due to certain operations that are subject to tax incentives, state and local taxes and foreign taxes that are different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. The average foreign effective tax rate on international pre-tax income for continuing operations was 16.4%, 17.2% and 14.2% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The company’s average foreign effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax incentives in Puerto Rico, Switzerland and certain other tax jurisdictions outside of the United States, as well as foreign earnings in tax jurisdictions with lower statutory rates than the United States. In addition, as discussed further below, the company’s effective income tax rate can be impacted in each year by discrete factors or events. Refer to Note 15 for further information regarding the company’s income taxes.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2014 included a non-deductible charge to account for an additional year of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter by the Internal Revenue Service. Partially offsetting this increase in the effective tax rate was an increase in income earned in foreign jurisdictions with rates of tax lower than the U.S. rate. Additionally, the company favorably settled certain contingent tax matters.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2013 included the favorable settlement of the company’s bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement proceedings between the U.S. government and the government of Switzerland relating to intellectual property, product, and service transfer pricing arrangements, which was offset by other contingent tax matters principally related to transfer pricing. Additionally, the effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by increases in valuation allowances relating to the tax benefit from losses that the company does not believe that it is more likely than not to realize and interest expense related to the company’s unrecognized tax benefits. Partially offsetting these unfavorable items were $16 million of U.S. R&D credits. Additionally, the company’s effective tax rate was impacted by a change in the earnings mix from lower tax to higher tax rate jurisdictions compared to the prior year.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2012 were gains totaling $91 million relating to the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities related to prior acquisitions, for which there were no tax  

34  

Table of Contents 

 charges. Also impacting the effective tax rate was a cost of sales reduction of $37 million for an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves when the company substantially completed the recall in the United States in 2012, for which there was no tax charge. These items were offset by a change in the earnings mix from lower tax to higher tax rate jurisdictions compared to the prior year.  

As described in Note 15, management intends to reinvest past earnings in several jurisdictions outside of the United States indefinitely. The company will continue to evaluate its global financial structure and U.S. cash needs as part of its planned separation into two independent, global healthcare companies.  

Income from Continuing Operations and Earnings per Diluted Share  

Income from continuing operations was $1.9 billion in 2014, $2.0 billion in 2013, and $2.3 billion in 2012. Income from continuing operations per diluted share was $3.56 in 2014, $3.66 in 2013, and $4.11 in 2012. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2013 to 2014 and from 2012 to 2013 are discussed above. Additionally, income from continuing operations per diluted share was positively impacted by the repurchase of eight million shares in 2014, 13 million shares in 2013, and 25 million shares in 2012. Refer to Note 12 for further information regarding the company’s stock repurchases.  

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax  

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax was $551 million in 2014, $0 million in 2013, and $43 million in 2012. The increase in 2014 was driven primarily by the $417 million gain recognized on the sale of the commercial vaccines business. The decrease in 2013 was driven primarily by $90 million in business optimization charges.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

The company’s cash flows reflect both continuing and discontinued operations.  

Cash Flows from Operations  

Cash flows from operations totaled $3.2 billion in 2014, $3.2 billion in 2013, and $3.1 billion in 2012. Cash flows remained flat in 2014 as compared to 2013 and increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 due to the factors discussed below.  

Accounts Receivable  

Cash flows relating to accounts receivable decreased in 2014 and increased in 2013. Days sales outstanding were 52.0 days, 55.9 days, and 53.3 days for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Days sales outstanding in 2014 and 2013 included an unfavorable impact of 1.9 days and 3.4 days, respectively, from the acquisition of Gambro. Excluding the impact of Gambro, days sales outstanding declined to 50.1 days in 2014 reflecting an improvement in collection periods in both the United States and certain international markets as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency. Similarly, excluding the impact of Gambro, days sales outstanding declined to 52.5 days in 2013 reflecting improvement in collection periods in both the United States and certain international markets.  

Inventories  

Cash outflows for inventories increased in both 2014 and 2013. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2014 and 2013, as well as inventory turns by segment for 2014, 2013 and 2012. Inventory turns for the year are calculated as the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales divided by the year-end inventory balance.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

35  

Table of Contents 

The increase in inventories in 2014 and associated decrease in inventory turns was due to higher levels of plasma protein related inventories in the BioScience segment to support increased demand and future growth and the impact from new products, including RIXUBIS, OBIZUR and HYQVIA. The decrease in inventory turns was also driven by higher cost of sales in 2013 compared to 2014 associated with Gambro purchase accounting adjustments and business optimization charges.  

Inventory turns for the total company increased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to strong sales and inventory management efforts. Inventory turns in 2013 also included the favorable impacts from the above-mentioned Gambro purchase accounting adjustments and business optimization charges.  

Other  

The changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities were $115 million in 2014, $361 million in 2013, and $40 million in 2012. The changes were primarily driven by the timing of payments to suppliers and the impact of litigation-related payments.  

Payments related to the execution of the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the company’s business optimization initiatives were $161 million in 2014, $125 million in 2013, and $283 million in 2012. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the business optimization initiatives.  

Changes in other balance sheet items were $54 million in 2014, $135 million in 2013, and $193 million in 2012. The changes during 2014 and 2013 were primarily driven by prepaid expenses and hedging activity. Cash contributions to the company’s pension plans totaled $74 million, $67 million, and $78 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

Capital Expenditures  

Capital expenditures totaled $1.9 billion in 2014, $1.5 billion in 2013, and $1.2 billion in 2012. The increase in capital expenditures in 2014 was primarily driven by product capacity expansions at certain manufacturing facilities, including the Covington, Georgia facility. The company also invested in projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities, support the company’s strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets and support an ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories.  

Acquisitions and Investments  

Net cash outflows related to acquisitions and investments were $409 million in 2014, $3.9 billion in 2013, and $515 million in 2012.  

The cash outflows in 2014 included $85 million for the acquisitions of Chatham Therapeutics and AesRx as well as $217 million primarily related to upfront and milestone payments associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements with Merrimack, Coherus Biosciences, Inc. (Coherus), CTI BioPharma Corp. (CTI BioPharma, formerly named Cell Therapeutics, Inc.) and Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Momenta).  

The cash outflows in 2013 included $3.6 billion for the acquisition of Gambro (net of cash acquired of $88 million) and $51 million for the acquisition of the investigational hemophilia compound OBIZUR and related assets from Inspiration BioPharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. Also included were upfront and milestone payments of $130 million associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements with Coherus, CTI BioPharma, and JW Holdings Corporation.  

The cash outflows in 2012 included $304 million for the acquisition of Synovis, $19 million for the acquisition of Laboratoire Fasonut, and $50 million for an investment in the preferred stock of Onconova Therapeutics, Inc. (Onconova). Also included were upfront payments of $113 million primarily associated with the company’s collaboration arrangements with Onconova and Momenta.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Refer to Note 5 for further information about these acquisitions and collaborations.  

Divestitures and Other Investing Activities  

Net cash inflows relating to divestitures and other investing activities were $765 million in 2014, $14 million in 2013, and $107 million in 2012. Cash inflows in 2014 primarily related to proceeds of $639 million from the sale of the company’s commercial vaccines business as well as the sale of certain investments.  

Cash inflows in 2013 primarily related to various sales of certain investments and other assets.  

Cash inflows in 2012 primarily related to proceeds of $59 million from the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities (including the sale of Greek government bonds) and $19 million from the sale of common stock of Enobia Pharma Corporation.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Debt Issuances, Net of Payments of Obligations  

Net cash outflows related to debt and other financing obligations totaled $113 million in 2014 driven by approximately $1.0 billion in repayments, which included $500 million of floating rate senior unsecured notes that matured in December 2014 as well as $350 million of 4.0% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2014. The company issued and redeemed commercial paper throughout the year, and there was $875 million outstanding at December 31, 2014.  

In June 2013, the company issued $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes with various maturities. Approximately $3.0 billion of the net proceeds of these debt issuances was used to finance the acquisition of Gambro in 2013 and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. This issuance was partially offset by the repayment of $300 million of 1.8% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2013 and payment of assumed Gambro debt of $221 million after completion of the acquisition in September 2013. Refer to Note 8 for additional information regarding the debt issuance and Note 5 regarding the Gambro acquisition.  

In August 2012, the company issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes, with $700 million maturing in August 2022 and bearing a 2.40% coupon rate, and $300 million maturing in August 2042 and bearing a 3.65% coupon rate. The net proceeds of the debt issuance were used for general corporate purposes, which includes capital expenditures associated with previously announced plans to expand capacity to support longer-term growth of the company’s plasma-based treatments, including with respect to the Covington, Georgia facility.  

The company’s debt instruments discussed above are unsecured and contain certain covenants, including restrictions relating to the company’s creation of secured debt.  

Other Financing Activities  

Cash dividend payments totaled $1.1 billion in 2014, $1.0 billion in 2013, and $804 million in 2012. The increase in cash dividend payments was primarily due to increases in the quarterly dividend rate of approximately 6%, 9% and 34% as announced in May 2014, May 2013 and July 2012.  

Proceeds and realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans totaled $369 million, $508 million, and $512 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Realized excess tax benefits, which were $24 million in 2014, $34 million in 2013, and $24 million in 2012, are presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in the operating section and an inflow in the financing section.  

As authorized by the Board of Directors, the company repurchases its stock depending on the company’s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The company repurchased eight million shares for $550 million in  

37  

Table of Contents 

 2014, 13 million shares for $913 million in 2013, and 25 million shares for $1.5 billion in 2012. In July 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of the company’s common stock and $0.5 billion remained available as of December 31, 2014.  

Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings  

Credit Facilities  

The company’s primary revolving credit facility has a maximum capacity of $1.5 billion and matures in December 2015. In 2014, the company entered into an additional revolving credit facility with a maximum capacity of $1.8 billion which also matures in December 2015 and contains similar covenants as the primary revolving credit facility. The company also maintains a Euro-denominated revolving credit facility with a maximum capacity of approximately $375 million as of December 31, 2014 and matures in December 2015. As of December 31, 2014 there were no borrowings outstanding under any of these revolving credit facilities. As of December 31, 2013, there was approximately $124 million outstanding under the Euro-denominated facility and there were no outstanding borrowings under the primary revolving credit facility. The company’s facilities enable the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and contain various covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio. At December 31, 2014, the company was in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting any of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by each institution’s respective commitment.  

The company also maintains other credit arrangements, as described in Note 8.  

Access to Capital  

The company intends to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. The company had $2.9 billion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2014, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which the company operates. The divestiture of the Vaccines franchise is not expected to have a significant impact on the company’s liquidity. The company invests its excess cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds, and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial institutions.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company’s growth objectives.  

The company continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $363 million and $561 million, respectively. The decrease in net accounts receivable reflects strong collections in both Spain and Portugal. While global economic conditions have not significantly impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Credit Ratings  

The company’s credit ratings at December 31, 2014 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In March 2014, Standard & Poor’s lowered its ratings on Baxter’s senior debt to A- and short-term debt to A2 from A and A1, respectively, at December 31, 2013. The change in the credit ratings and outlook is due to the uncertainty around the planned spin-off of Baxter’s biopharmaceuticals business as detailed above.  

If Baxter’s credit ratings or outlooks were to be further downgraded, the company’s financing costs related to its credit arrangements and any future debt issuances could be unfavorably impacted. However, any future credit rating downgrade or change in outlook would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facilities, and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt, unless, with respect to certain debt instruments, preceded by a change in control of the company.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2014, the company had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued liabilities (other than the current portion of unrecognized tax benefits), payable or maturing in the following periods.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1   Interest payments on debt and capital lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2014. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2014. Refer to Note 8 and Note 9 for further discussion regarding the company’s debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2014.  

 2   The primary components of other long-term liabilities in the company’s consolidated balance sheet are liabilities relating to pension and other postemployment benefit plans, litigation, foreign currency hedges, and certain income tax-related liabilities. The company projected the timing of the future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from the estimates.  

The company contributed $74 million, $67 million, and $78 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Most of the company’s plans are funded. The timing of funding in the  

39  

Table of Contents 

 future is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes pension plan cash outflows. The pension plan balance included in other long-term liabilities (and excluded from the table above) totaled $2.2 billion at December 31, 2014.  

 3   Includes the company’s significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancelable agreements, any penalty due upon cancellation is included. These commitments do not exceed the company’s projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts.  

 4   Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, the long-term liability relating to uncertain tax positions of $195 million at December 31, 2014 has been excluded from the table above.  

 5   Excludes contingent liabilities, including contingent milestone payments of $2.6 billion associated with joint development and commercialization arrangements and contingent milestone payments of $2.6 billion associated with acquisitions, as well as the company’s unfunded commitment at December 31, 2014 of $38 million as a limited partner in multiple investment companies. These amounts have been excluded from the contractual obligations above due to uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments. Refer to Note 5, Note 10 and Note 11 for additional information regarding these commitments.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Baxter periodically enters into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, the company may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of the company’s significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 10 for information regarding receivable securitizations, Note 11 regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements and indemnifications and Note 16 regarding legal contingencies.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK  

The company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The company’s hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 9 and Note 10 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments and hedging strategies.  

Currency Risk  

The company is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to recognized assets and liabilities, forecasted transactions and net assets denominated in the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Colombian Peso, and Swedish Krona. The company manages its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the company to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, the company uses derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and shareholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. Financial market and currency volatility may limit the company’s ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures.  

The company may use options, forwards and cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and recognized assets and liabilities. The maximum term over which the company has cash flow hedge contracts in place related to forecasted transactions at December 31, 2014 is 12 months. The company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge certain intercompany and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require Baxter to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan Bolivars for U.S. Dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. Since January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under GAAP and as a result, the functional currency of the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela is the U.S. Dollar. Effective February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued the official exchange rate from 4.3 to 6.3, which resulted in a charge of $11 million during 2013. As of December 31, 2014, the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela had net assets of $26 million denominated in the Venezuelan Bolivar. In 2014, net sales in Venezuela represented less than 1% of Baxter’s total net sales.  

As part of its risk-management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of its foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates.  

A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2014, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $12 million with respect to those contracts would decrease by $72 million, resulting in a net liability position. A similar analysis performed with respect to option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2013 indicated that, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $18 million would decrease by $71 million.  

The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2014 by replacing the actual exchange rates at December 31, 2014 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances.  

Interest Rate and Other Risks  

The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company’s policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that the company believes is appropriate. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. The company also periodically uses forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt.  

As part of its risk management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings relating to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 21 basis-point increase in interest rates (approximately 10% of the company’s weighted-average interest rate during 2014) affecting the company’s financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives, would have an immaterial effect on the company’s 2014, 2013 and 2012 earnings and on the fair value of the company’s fixed-rate debt as of the end of each fiscal year.  

As discussed in Note 10, the fair values of the company’s long-term litigation liabilities were computed by discounting the expected cash flows based on currently available information. A 10% movement in the assumed discount rate would have an immaterial effect on the fair values of those liabilities.  

With respect to the company’s investments in affiliates, the company believes any reasonably possible near-term losses in earnings, cash flows and fair values would not be material to the company’s consolidated financial position.  

41  

Table of Contents 

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

Refer to Note 1 for information on changes in accounting standards.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of the company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1. Certain of the company’s accounting policies are considered critical because these policies are the most important to the depiction of the company’s financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by the company, often requiring the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from the company’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. There have been no significant changes in the company’s application of its critical accounting policies during 2014. The company’s critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The following is a summary of accounting policies that the company considers critical to the consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances  

The company’s policy is to recognize revenues from product sales and services when earned. Specifically, revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred (or services have been rendered), the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For product sales, revenue is not recognized until title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. The shipping terms for the majority of the company’s revenue arrangements are FOB destination. The company sometimes enters into arrangements in which it commits to delivering multiple products or services to its customers. In these cases, total arrangement consideration is allocated to the deliverables based on their relative selling prices. Then the allocated consideration is recognized as revenue in accordance with the principles described above. Selling prices are determined by applying a selling price hierarchy. Selling prices are determined using vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), if it exists. Otherwise, selling prices are determined using third party evidence (TPE). If neither VSOE nor TPE is available, the company uses its best estimate of selling prices.  

Provisions for rebates, chargebacks to wholesalers and distributors, returns, and discounts (collectively, “sales deductions”) are provided for at the time the related sales are recorded, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. The sales deductions are based primarily on estimates of the amounts earned or that will be claimed on such sales.  

The company periodically and systematically evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts. In determining the amount of the reserve, the company considers historical credit losses, the past-due status of receivables, payment history and other customer-specific information, and any other relevant factors or considerations.  

The company also provides for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty programs when the cost is both probable and reasonably estimable, which is at the time the related revenue is recognized. The cost is determined based on actual company experience for the same or similar products as well as other relevant information. Estimates of future costs under the company’s warranty programs could change based on developments in the future. The company is not able to estimate the probability or amount of any future developments that could impact the reserves, but believes presently established reserves are adequate.  

Pension and Other Postemployment Benefit (OPEB) Plans  

The company provides pension and other postemployment benefits to certain of its employees. These employee benefit expenses are reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statement as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans  

42  

Table of Contents 

 is calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually, and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following:  

   •    interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities;  

   •    the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets;  

   •    rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities);  

   •    anticipated future healthcare costs (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and  

   •    other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities).  

Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its assumptions are appropriate.  

The company’s key assumptions are listed in Note 13. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Discount Rate Assumption  

For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, at the December 31, 2014 measurement date, the company used a discount rate of 4.00% and 3.95% to measure its benefit obligations for the pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. These discount rates will be used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2015. The company used a broad population of approximately 350 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2014 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 700 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds Baxter would most likely select if it were to actually annuitize its pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve.  

For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Eurozone, the company uses a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For the company’s other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates.  

To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease by approximately $44 million, and for each 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would increase by approximately $54 million.  

Return on Plan Assets Assumption  

In measuring net periodic cost for 2014, the company used a long-term expected rate of return of 7.50% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. For measuring the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2015, this assumption will decrease to 7.25%. This assumption is not applicable to the company’s OPEB plan because it is not funded.  

43  

Table of Contents 

The company establishes the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on the company’s asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both the company’s actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future.  

To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $19 million.  

Other Assumptions  

For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, at the December 31, 2014 measurement date, the company used the RP 2014 combined mortality table adjusted to reflect past experience. For all other pension plans, the company utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. The company periodically analyzes and updates its assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends.  

The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Refer to Note 13 for information regarding the sensitivity of the OPEB plan obligation and the total of the service and interest cost components of OPEB plan cost to potential changes in future healthcare costs.  

Legal Contingencies  

The company is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, regulatory and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 16 for further information. The company records a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is not probable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, no liability is recorded. The company has established reserves for certain of its legal matters. The company is not able to estimate the amount or range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies for which there is no reserve or additional loss for matters already reserved. At December 31, 2014, total legal liabilities were $72 million.  

The company’s loss estimates are generally developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on analyses of potential outcomes. With respect to the recording of any insurance recoveries, after completing the assessment and accounting for the company’s legal contingencies, the company separately and independently analyzes its insurance coverage and records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring at the gross amount that is expected to be collected. In performing the assessment, the company reviews available information, including historical company-specific and market collection experience for similar claims, current facts and circumstances pertaining to the particular insurance claim, the financial viability of the applicable insurance company or companies, and other relevant information.  

While the liability of the company in connection with certain claims cannot be estimated and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions  

The company maintains valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in the company’s tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the company evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if the company takes operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary.  

In the normal course of business, the company is audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The company believes its tax positions comply with applicable tax law and the company intends to defend its positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, based on the technical support for the positions, the company’s past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. The company’s results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, the company prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or was required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.  

Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D  

The company acquires intangible assets and records them at fair value. Valuations are generally completed for business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion and consideration of market participant assumptions. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in a discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  

Acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D) is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.  

Acquired IPR&D included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense.  

R&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties on or after regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product.  

Impairment of Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. The company assesses goodwill for impairment based on its reporting units,  

45  

Table of Contents 

 which are the same as its operating segments, BioScience and Medical Products. As of December 31, 2014, the date of the company’s annual impairment review, the fair values of the company’s reporting units were in excess of their carrying values. The company performs a qualitative assessment of other indefinite-lived intangible assets, including IPR&D, at least annually. If the intangible asset is determined to be more likely than not impaired as a result of the assessment, the company completes a quantitative impairment test. Intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets (such as fixed assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Refer to Note 1 for further information. The company’s impairment reviews are based on an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans and a market participant’s views of the company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair values of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company’s estimates.  

Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and the cost is recognized as expense ratably over the substantive vesting period. Determining the appropriate fair value model to use requires judgment. Determining the assumptions that enter into the model is highly subjective and also requires judgment. The company’s stock compensation costs primarily relate to awards of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs). The company uses the Black-Scholes model for estimating the fair value of stock options, and significant assumptions include long-term projections regarding stock price volatility, employee exercise, post-vesting termination and pre-vesting forfeiture behaviors, interest rates and dividend yields. The company’s expected volatility assumption is based on a weighted-average of the historical volatility of Baxter’s stock and the implied volatility from traded options on Baxter’s stock, with historical volatility more heavily weighted. The expected life assumption is primarily based on the vesting terms of the stock option, historical employee exercise patterns and employee post-vesting termination behavior. The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The dividend yield reflects historical experience as well as future expectations over the expected life of the option.  

The fair value of RSUs is equal to the quoted price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant.  

As part of an overall periodic evaluation of the company’s stock compensation programs, the company changed the vesting condition for 50% of the PSUs granted to senior management beginning with its 2013 annual equity awards. The vesting condition for these PSUs is based on return on invested capital (ROIC), with annual performance targets set at the beginning of the year for each tranche of the award during the three-year service period. The holder of the ROIC PSUs is entitled to receive a number of shares of common stock equal to a percentage, ranging from 0% to 200%, of the ROIC PSUs granted, depending on the actual results compared to the annual performance targets. Compensation cost for the ROIC PSUs is measured based on the fair value of the awards on the date that the specific vesting terms for each tranche of the award are established. The fair value of the awards is determined based on the quoted price of the company’s stock on the grant date for each tranche of the award. The compensation cost for ROIC PSUs is adjusted at each reporting date to reflect the estimated probability of achieving the vesting condition. The probability of achieving the vesting condition has not materially changed during the year ended December 31, 2014. The remaining 50% of the PSUs continued to include conditions for vesting based on Baxter stock performance relative to the company’s peer group. The company uses a Monte Carlo model for estimating the fair value of these PSUs. A Monte Carlo model uses stock price volatility and other variables to estimate the probability of satisfying the market conditions and the resulting fair value of the award. Refer to Note 12 for additional information.  

46  

Table of Contents 

CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS  

In July 2014, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA primarily relating to processes implemented to ensure the absence of particulate matter or leaks associated with products manufactured at the company’s Aibonito, Puerto Rico, plant. The company is working with FDA to resolve this matter, as well as each of the other Warning Letters listed below.  

In January 2014, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA primarily directed to quality systems for the company’s Round Lake, Illinois, facility, particularly in that facility’s capacity as a specification developer for certain of the company’s medical devices. The letter also included observations related to the company’s ambulatory infusor business in Irvine, California, which previously had been subject to agency action.  

In June 2013, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA regarding operations and processes at its North Cove, North Carolina and Jayuya, Puerto Rico facilities. The Warning Letter addresses observations related to Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) violations at the two facilities.  

In June 2010, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA in connection with an inspection of its Renal franchise’s McGaw Park, Illinois facility. The Warning Letter pertains to the processes by which the company analyzes and addresses product complaints through corrective and preventative actions, and reports relevant information to FDA.  

On October 9, 2014, the company had a Regulatory Meeting with FDA to discuss the Warning Letters described above. At the meeting, the company agreed to work closely with FDA to provide regular updates on its progress to meet all requirements and resolve all matters identified in the Warning Letters described above.  

Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact the company.  

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

This annual report includes forward-looking statements. Use of the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “potential,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “evaluates,” “pursues,” “anticipates,” “continues,” “designs,” “impacts,” “affects,” “forecasts,” “target,” “outlook,” “initiative,” “objective,” “designed,” “priorities,” “goal,” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. These forward-looking statements may include statements with respect to accounting estimates and assumptions, litigation-related matters including outcomes, future regulatory filings and the company’s R&D pipeline, strategic objectives, credit exposure to foreign governments, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, the company’s exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risks, the planned separation of the biopharmaceuticals and medical products businesses, the impact of competition, future sales growth, business development activities, business optimization initiatives, future capital and R&D expenditures, future debt issuances, manufacturing expansion, the sufficiency of the company’s facilities and financial flexibility, the adequacy of credit facilities, tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts.  

These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. While these statements represent our current judgment on what the future may hold, and we believe these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of  

47  

Table of Contents 

 any events or financial results. Whether actual future results and developments will conform to expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following factors, many of which are beyond our control:  

   •    demand for and market acceptance risks for and competitive pressures related to new and existing products;  

   •    product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance, the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale, and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle;  

   •    product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales;  

   •    future actions of FDA, EMA or any other regulatory body or government authority that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, recalls, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities;  

   •    failures with respect to the company’s compliance programs;  

   •    future actions of third parties, including third-party payors, as healthcare reform and other similar measures are implemented in the United States and globally;  

   •    the impact of U.S. healthcare reform and other similar actions undertaken by foreign governments with respect to pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies;  

   •    additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures in the United States or globally, which may affect pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company’s business;  

   •    the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies;  

   •    global regulatory, trade and tax policies;  

   •    the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities and to successfully execute on business development strategies;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its joint product development and commercialization arrangements, governmental collaborations and other business development activities;  

   •    fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies;  

   •    the availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply;  

   •    inability to create additional production capacity in a timely manner or the occurrence of other manufacturing or supply difficulties;  

   •    the company’s ability to successfully separate its biopharmaceuticals and medical products businesses on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and achieve the intended results;  

   •    the ability to protect or enforce the company’s owned or in-licensed patent or other proprietary rights (including trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how) or patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company’s manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology;  

   •    the impact of global economic conditions on the company and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain countries in which the company operates;  

   •    fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates;  

   •    any changes in law concerning the taxation of income, including income earned outside the United States;  

   •    actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits;  

   •    breaches or failures of the company’s information technology systems;  

   •    loss of key employees or inability to identify and recruit new employees;  

   •    the outcome of pending or future litigation;  

48  

Table of Contents 

   •    the adequacy of the company’s cash flows from operations to meet its ongoing cash obligations and fund its investment program; and  

   •    other factors identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including those factors described in Item 1A and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are available on the company’s website.  

Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.