PART I    

Item 1. Business.      

General 

The company was originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California. In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in the State of Delaware. As used herein, the term "Caterpillar," "we," "us," "our" or "the company" refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. 

Principal Lines of Business / Nature of Operations 

We operate in three principal lines of business: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Due to financial information required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, we have also divided our business into nine reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Information about our reportable segments, including geographic information, appears in Note 24 – “Segment information” of Exhibit 13. 

Other information about our operations in 2007 and our outlook for 2008, including risks associated with foreign operations, is incorporated by reference from "Management's Discussion and Analysis" of Exhibit 13. 

Company Strengths  

Caterpillar is the leader in construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc., Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services Inc. and Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail). Annual sales and revenues were $ 44.958 billion, making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its industry. Caterpillar is also a leading U.S. exporter. Through direct sales of certain products and a global network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with customers around the world. For over 80 years, the Caterpillar name has been associated with the highest level of quality products and services. More information is available at www.CAT.com. 

Page 1 

Competitive Environment 

Caterpillar products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets. In all markets, we compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region. Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home countries or regions. 

   Machinery     

The competitive environment for Caterpillar’s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many regional and specialized local competitors. Examples of global competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Terex Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. and Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines that compete with Caterpillar product lines and each have varying degrees of regional focus. John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part of Deere & Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America. Others, like Hitachi, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against Caterpillar. 

During 2007, global industry demand continued to be strong and most competitors experienced increased sales and operating profits, despite weak construction activity in North America. Solid economic and industry growth was experienced in most of the world outside North America, particularly in emerging markets. The overall competitive environment in the machinery business continues to be intense, and the overall financial health of the industry continues to improve. 

Caterpillar's logistics business provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and over 65 other companies worldwide. It competes with global, regional and local competitors, including companies such as DHL Express USA, Inc. and United Parcel Service, Inc. The unit has grown rapidly since its inception in 1987, and the contract logistics industry is expected to continue to grow at rates above that of the global economy as a whole. 

Since its acquisition by Caterpillar in June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail has continued its position in North America as a leading provider of a broad range of products. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North America. Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a strong fit with our strategic direction and will leverage Caterpillar’s global remanufacturing capabilities. 

In February 2007, Caterpillar acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Franklin Power Products and International Fuel Systems, Inc., subsidiaries of Remy International. These businesses joined other Caterpillar remanufacturing facilities in the United States, Mexico, Europe and Asia, increasing our overall product and service offering and providing a platform for future growth opportunities for remanufactured products. 

In November 2007, Caterpillar announced the acquisition of the assets of the Blount Forestry Division and assumed product design, development and manufacturing responsibilities, offering a full range of products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land management. Competition in this market comes from John Deere Forestry Division (part of Deere & Co), Komatsu Ltd. and others. 

  Engines      

Caterpillar operates in a very competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; on-highway vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications. In addition, Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil and gas and power generation applications. 

Page 2 

The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists of a few global competitors who compete in a variety of Caterpillar’s markets, and a larger set of companies who compete in a limited size range and/or application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., MTU Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both part of Tognum GmbH) and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power Systems (part of Deere & Co.), Siemens Power Generation (part of Siemens AG), GE Energy, MAN AG, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries LTD and Volvo Penta (part of Volvo Group AB) compete in a portion of Caterpillar’s markets. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., Rolls-Royce Group plc and others, are packagers who source engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels. 

In the North American on-highway heavy-duty and mid-range diesel engine markets, competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., Detroit Diesel Corp. and Mercedes-Benz (both part of Daimler AG), Navistar International Corp. and Volvo Group AB. On-highway diesel engine competitors in overseas markets include, but are not limited to, Mercedes-Benz and Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus Corp. (both part of Daimler AG), DAF Trucks N.V., Iveco Motors (part of Fiat S.p.A), MAN AG, Scania AB and Volvo Group AB. Some of these competitors are truck and/or bus manufacturers with proprietary diesel engines who also offer engines from independent manufacturers such as Caterpillar. 

Since the introduction of our four engine models with ACERT® Technology beginning in 2003, Caterpillar has shipped over 550,000 ACERT engines into the North American on-highway truck market. Customer acceptance of Caterpillar engine performance, quality and reliability continues to be strong, as evidenced by receiving a J.D. Power and Associates Award in customer satisfaction in 2007 for an unprecedented seventh year. 

Caterpillar also continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging ACERT Technology into off-road markets, as well as into more of our engine platforms. The building blocks for ACERT Technology are very flexible and scaleable and are being applied as needed based on engine platform and application. From October 2004 through year-end 2007, Caterpillar has shipped over 65,000 Caterpillar machines powered by engines with ACERT Technology. A line of ACERT industrial, electric power and marine engines has been released to further leverage the technology throughout Caterpillar’s businesses and engine platforms. 

We believe ACERT provides Caterpillar a valuable foundation now and in the future to meet emissions and performance requirements, and we plan to continue investing in developing and leveraging ACERT Technology systems and components. 

Caterpillar’s remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products and services to Caterpillar and other external clients. The remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or smaller companies. The company launched the remanufacturing business in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is now one of the world’s largest remanufacturers, processing more than two million units annually and recycling more than 100 million pounds of remanufactured products each year. The business continues to grow at rates well above that of the global economy as a whole. 

   Financial Products     

Cat Financial, incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar. Cat Financial's primary business is to provide retail financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers around the world. Such retail financing is primarily comprised of financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. In addition, Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. In addition to retail financing, Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term dealer receivables from Caterpillar. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and generate financing income for Cat Financial. A significant portion of Cat Financial's activities is conducted in North America. However, Cat Financial has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin America.   

For over 25 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends, product structuring and customer needs. 

Page 3 

In certain instances, Cat Financial's operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of information related to a borrower's credit experience. 

Cat Financial's retail financing leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 64 percent*) include: 

  ·    Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the lease. For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment (18 percent*).     

  ·    Finance (non-tax) leases where the lessee is considered the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, and the agreement either requires or allows the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term (20 percent*).     

  ·    Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structured payments over time (25 percent*).     

  ·    Governmental lease-purchase plans in the United States that offer low interest rates and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1 percent*).     

Retail notes receivables (21 percent*) include: 

  ·    Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as collateral to obtain financing.     

Wholesale notes receivables, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 15 percent*) include: 

  ·    Inventory/rental programs which provide assistance to dealers by financing their inventory, rental fleets and rental facilities (6 percent*).     

  ·    Short-term dealer receivables that Cat Financial purchases from Caterpillar and subsidiaries at a discount (9 percent*).     

__________ 

*Indicates the percentage of Cat Financial's total portfolio at December 31, 2007. We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat Financial's concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8 – “Finance receivables” of Exhibit 13. 

The retail financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial's competitors include CIT Group Inc.; CitiCapital, a business unit of Citigroup; General Electric Capital Corporation and various local banks and finance companies. In addition, many of our manufacturing competitors use below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist machine sales. Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to respond to these competing offers. 

Cat Financial's results are largely dependent upon Caterpillar dealers' ability to sell equipment and customers' willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements. It is also affected by the availability of funds from its financing sources and general economic conditions such as inflation and market interest rates. 

Cat Financial has a "match funding" policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivable portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3 – “Derivative financial instruments and risk management” of Exhibit 13. 

Page 4 

In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial's operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios. None of these foreign currency forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge. 

Cat Financial provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other things, the customer's credit history, financial strength and equipment application. Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers' sales and inventory of Caterpillar equipment, especially in North America. Cat Financial's competitive position is improved by marketing programs, subsidized by Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers, which allow it to offer below-market interest rates. Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing. Transaction processing time and supporting technologies continue to drive Cat Financial in its efforts to respond quickly to customers and improve internal processing efficiencies. We believe Cat Financial's web-based Cat FinancExpressSM transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive advantage in those areas. Cat FinancExpress collects information on-line to provide finance quotes and credit decisions and then prints the related documents, all in a very short time frame. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. The insurance company is licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District of Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company’s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. 

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. The insurance company is licensed to conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company also provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 

Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance is a captive insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring compliance with solvency requirements. 

Caterpillar Product Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in Missouri. It conducts a machine extended service contract program in Italy, France and Germany by providing machine extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in those countries. 

Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. It provides brokerage services for all property and casualty and life and health lines of business. 

Caterpillar’s insurance group provides protection for claims under the following programs: 

  ·    Contractual Liability Insurance to Caterpillar dealers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) for extended service contracts (parts and labor) offered by third party dealers and OEMs.     

  ·    Cargo insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products.     

  ·    Contractors' Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar’s OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party dealers.     

Page 5 

  ·    General liability, employer's liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar.     

  ·    Mortgagee’s Interest Insurance to Cat Financial for its marine loan portfolio.     

  ·    Retiree Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the VEBA.     

  ·    Brokerage services for property and casualty and life and health business.     

Cat Power Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, primarily invested equity and took ownership interests in power generation projects throughout the world that utilize Caterpillar power generation equipment. In some cases, these projects also utilize construction and operations and maintenance services that are provided by other Caterpillar subsidiaries. Cat Power Ventures has investments in power projects in Poland, the Dominican Republic and Tunisia and has created direct and indirect subsidiaries and affiliates to hold these investments. In December 2005, Cat Power Ventures decided that it would no longer invest equity in power generation projects. As a result, Cat Power Ventures will not make any new equity investments in power generation projects and will sell its project investment portfolio. 

Business Developments in 2007 

In 2007, Caterpillar continued to focus on the execution of our Vision 2020 strategy that was introduced in 2005. Through Vision 2020, we established key enterprise goals for 2010 grouped under the “3Ps” of people, performance and profitable growth. Our people goals include a highly engaged workforce and world-class safety. The performance, product and process goals are related to improved quality and market leadership in every major product group we serve. The profitable growth goals include a 2010 sales and revenues target and earnings per share growth. 

Strategy Update 

In April 2007, the company’s Chairman and CEO, Jim Owens, updated analysts and investors on the execution of the company’s strategy. Highlights of the 2007 status update include: 

  ·    On track to reach 2010 goals of $50+ billion of sales and revenues and profit per share growth in a range of 15 to 20 percent;     

  ·    Implementation of the Caterpillar Production System (CPS) expected to improve safety, employee engagement, dealer repair frequency, product availability, inventory turns and labor productivity through 2010;     

  ·    Improvement in recordable injuries and lost time cases;     

  ·    Continued growth in China; and     

  ·    Continued planning to managing earnings per share and return on assets in a trough cycle.     

Financial Results and Stockholder Value 

Further progress toward financial goals and increased stockholder value was made in 2007. Full year 2007 results marked the fifth straight year of record sales and revenues and the fourth consecutive year of record profit for Caterpillar, including sales and revenues of $44.958 billion and profit of $3.541 billion, or $5.37 per share. We also reduced the number of shares outstanding by repurchasing 33.5 million shares in 2007 at a cost of $2.405 billion in support of our Board authorized $7.5 billion stock repurchase program approved in February 2007 to be completed by 2011. 

Caterpillar Production System 

We continued our internal focus on global deployment of CPS with 6 Sigma. Implementation of CPS is fundamental to reaching our 2010 goals to reduce product availability by three times and improve inventory turns by more than 40 percent. 

Sustainability 

In 2007, the company continued our efforts in sustainable development and commitment to make sustainable development a "strategic area of improvement" in our enterprise strategy. The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the seventh consecutive year. DJSI uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify best practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of corporate sustainability. In October 2007, Caterpillar received a prestigious J.D. Power and Associates Award for ranking highest in customer satisfaction in the “Pickup and Delivery” category of their 2007 Heavy Duty Truck Engine/Transmission Customer Satisfaction Study. This award is the tenth Caterpillar has received from J.D. Power and Associates for heavy-duty truck engine customer satisfaction. 

Page 6 

Growth in China 

In 2007, the company made progress toward its commitment to continue expansion of our business in China in support of our overall enterprise strategy and Vision 2020. 

  ·    In March 2007, Caterpillar Marine Asia Pacific, the regional headquarters of Caterpillar Marine Power Systems in Shanghai, P. R. China, moved to a new office shared with Lei Shing Hong Machinery Ltd., Caterpillar’s marine dealer for Eastern China. This move better allows Caterpillar Marine Asia Pacific to serve the fast-growing marine markets in China, as well as India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and Australia.     

  ·    As part of our long-term strategic plan to support manufacturing growth in China and at its operations around the world, Caterpillar celebrated the grand opening of new manufacturing operations in Wuxi, China in May 2007. The Wuxi campus is located in Jiangsu Province in East China and includes nearly 47 acres. Caterpillar (China) Machinery Components Co. Ltd. (CCMC), a wholly owned Caterpillar company, will manufacture a range of components to be used primarily in Caterpillar machines and to be sold to select original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Using leased buildings, Caterpillar has produced hydraulic hose assemblies in Wuxi since mid-2006 and it has fabricated and assembled cabs for core Caterpillar machines since early 2007. The establishment of the Wuxi campus for key components is an important element in our enterprise strategy for 2010, as we continue to support our growing customer base in China and other key Asian markets.     

  ·    In August 2007, Caterpillar announced a major investment In China with plans to build state-of-the-art small and medium diesel engines in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. Caterpillar signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with the Wuxi National High-Tech Industrial Development Zone outlining a significant multi-year investment to develop and manufacture Perkins and Caterpillar branded engines in Wuxi. Construction of the engine facilities in Wuxi is subject to a final agreement being reached between Caterpillar and the Wuxi government and to other applicable approvals. The plan to build these engines in China demonstrates our long-term commitment to this critically important market and to our customers.     

Other Growth Initiatives 

In support of our efforts toward achieving market leadership and planning for performance through a trough cycle, Caterpillar took the following actions during 2007. 

  ·     In February 2007, Caterpillar acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Franklin Power Products and International Fuel Systems, Inc., subsidiaries of Remy International.  The acquisition increased our overall product and service offering and provided a platform for future growth opportunities for remanufactured products.     

  ·    In February 2007, Caterpillar, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (MHI) and Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding to conclude a plan that would result in a new ownership structure for SCM, whereby Caterpillar would own the majority of the outstanding shares of SCM and MHI would own the remaining shares. As of the end of 2007, definitive agreements for the plan had not yet been finalized.     

  ·    In April 2007, Caterpillar completed its purchase of Eurenov S.A.S. (Eurenov), a remanufacturer of engines, transmissions and components for leading European automotive manufacturers. Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services (Cat Reman) recently concluded the two-phase purchase process, which was first announced in June 2005. Eurenov operates its primary facility in Chaumont, France, and another facility in Radom, Poland. The acquisition strengthens our position in the remanufacturing market by allowing Cat Reman greater access to the European automotive and industrial engine and transmission remanufacturing market with expansion into Eastern Europe.     

  ·    In November 2007, Caterpillar acquired the assets of Blount International, Inc.'s Forestry Division. The acquisition included manufacturing and other facilities that will join Caterpillar's global facilities that produce and support forestry equipment. Since 2003, Caterpillar and Blount have had an agreement to jointly produce and market products globally under the Caterpillar and former Timberking brands. The acquisition of Blount's operations will bring all product design, development and manufacturing under Caterpillar and support our corporate objective to be the forestry market leader. Cat Forest Products now offers the broadest product line in the industry with a full range of products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land management.     

Page 7 

  ·    In December 2007, six Caterpillar dealers purchased certain assets of PMHC LLC (the Pioneer group), including Pioneer Machinery LLC, a premier distributor of forestry products in the southeastern United States. Prior to this sale, PMHC LLC and its operating companies were jointly owned by Caterpillar and these six Caterpillar dealers, whose service territories cover the same area of the southeastern United States. As a result of the sale, operations of the Pioneer group were transitioned to these six Caterpillar dealers. This strategic move is expected to strengthen Caterpillar's Customer Support Network in the Forestry Industry and enhance the Company's ability to serve its forestry customers in the southeastern United States, while also providing better continuity for the strong Pioneer brand and the Company's forestry product distribution channel with that of the traditional Caterpillar dealer business model. The Caterpillar dealers involved in the transaction were Blanchard Machinery, Carolina Tractor, Carter Machinery, Gregory Poole, Ring Power and Yancey Brothers.     

Acquisitions and Alliances 

Information related to acquisitions and alliances appears in Note 25 – “Alliances and acquisitions” of Exhibit 13. 

Order Backlog 

The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $17.8 billion at December 31, 2007, and $14.5 billion at December 31, 2006. Of the total backlog, approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2007, and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2006, was not expected to be filled in the following year. Our backlog is generally highest in the first and second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in our industry. 

Dealers 

Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of independent dealers (dealer network), 53 located in the United States and 128 located outside the United States. Worldwide, these dealers serve 182 countries and operate 3,645 places of business, including 1,606 dealer rental outlets. Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins Engines Company Limited (Perkins) also are sold through a worldwide network of 132 distributors located in 181 countries. The FG Wilson branded electric power generation systems are sold through a worldwide network of 200 dealers located in 180 countries. 

These dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers' principal businesses. Turbines and large medium speed reciprocating engines are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

The company's relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard sales and service agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the products in a specified geographic service territory. Prices to dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace. The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support to the dealer. The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company's trademarks, service marks and brand names. In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company's products to current and prospective customers in the dealer's service territory. Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company's products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company's product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the company's products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer's financial condition, sales and inventories and make these books and records available at the company's reasonable request. 

These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking protection from creditors. 

Page 8 

Patents and Trademarks  

Our products are sold primarily under the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions of "CAT" and "Caterpillar," "Solar Turbines," "MaK," "Perkins," "FG Wilson," "Olympian" and “Progress Rail.” We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and the services we provide. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 

Research and Development 

We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines and major components. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we spent $1,404 million, $1,347 million and $1,084 million, or 3.1 percent, 3.2 percent and 3.0 percent of our sales and revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs. 

Employment 

As of December 31, 2007, we employed 101,333 persons of whom 50,788 were located outside the United States. From a global, enterprise perspective, we believe our relationship with our employees is very good. We build and maintain a productive, motivated workforce by treating all employees fairly and equitably. 

In the United States, most of our 50,545 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. At select business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. 

As of December 31, 2007, there were 15,045 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents 12,235 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that will expire March 1, 2011. The International Association of Machinists represents 2,002 employees under labor agreements that expire on May 23, 2010, and April 30, 2012. 

Outside the United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 

Sales 

Sales outside the United States were 63 percent of consolidated sales for 2007, 54 percent for 2006 and 53 percent for 2005. 

Environmental Matters 

The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our earnings. In formulating that estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others. The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in the line item “Accrued Expenses” in Statement 2 – “Consolidated Financial Position at December 31” of Exhibit 13. 

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of remediation. Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

Page 9 

Available Information 

The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and any other form or report as required. The public may read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site (www.CAT.com/secfilings) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, our board's Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site (www.CAT.com/governance), or upon written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria, Illinois 61629-7310. 

 Additional company information may be obtained as follows: 

Current information - - 

  ·    phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar's latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail     

  ·    request, view, or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.CAT.com/materialsrequest     

      Historical information -     

  ·    view/download on-line at www.CAT.com/historical     

Item 1A. Risk Factors.