Item 1A. Risk Factors.      

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” of Exhibit 13. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The discussion and analysis in this Form 10-K and in our 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders that are forward-looking and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we issue to the public or in the form of oral presentation to the public. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company. You can identify these statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "will be," "should," “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” and similar words or expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. 

In particular, these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, prospective products, products’ approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies and financial results. The statements are based on assumptions or on known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Although, we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, we cannot guarantee the realization of these statements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and the markets it serves. 

The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may; however, consult any further related disclosures we make in our Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K reports to the SEC. 

The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from expected and past results. You should note it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties. 

Page 10 

Changes in Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies 

Most countries have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which alter demand for residential and nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affect sales of our products that serve these activities. Also, interest rates affect customers’ abilities to finance machine purchases and can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet. Our outlooks typically include assumptions about interest rates in a number of countries. Interest rates higher than those assumptions could result in lower sales than anticipated. 

Government policies on taxes and spending affect our businesses. Throughout the world, government spending finances much infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems and dams. Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount of money users can retain, both of which influence investment decisions. Developments more unfavorable than anticipated, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Government can also impact international trade and investment through a variety of policies, such as import quotas, inspections, capital controls or tariffs. Developments worse than anticipated in the outlook, which could include lower import quotas, more detailed inspections or higher tariffs, could negatively impact our results. 

Environmental Regulations 

Our facilities and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot ensure that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

Particularly our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other various regulatory agencies around the world. For instance, governments may set new standards that could impact our operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to impact our results negatively. 

Changes in Economic Conditions of Industries We Serve 

The energy and mining industries are major users of our machines and engines. Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent upon performance of these industries. If demand of output in these industries increases, the demand for our products would likely increase and vice versa. Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to economic growth, commodity inventories and any disruptions in production. We assume certain prices for key commodities in preparing our outlooks. Commodity prices lower than those assumed have the potential to negatively impact our sales. 

The rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts, and commercial construction, play a significant role in our results. Our products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease in the U.S. or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly impacted. 

Changes in Price and Significant Shortages of Component Products 

We are a significant user of steel and many commodities required for the manufacture of our products. So, increases in the prices of such commodities likely would boost costs higher than expected, negatively impacting profits. 

We rely on suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased in availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse affect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our source of supply of raw materials will be generally sufficient for our need in the foreseeable future. However, our results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted should the supply turn out to be insufficient for our operations. 

Page 11 

Currency Fluctuations 

The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar vis-à-vis other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could have significant impact on our results if such increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar is substantial. 

Dealer/Original Equipment Manufacturers Sourcing Practices 

We sell finished products through an independent dealer network or directly to OEMs. Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. 

In particular, some of our engine customers are truck manufacturers or OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture engines for their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Increased levels of production insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. A significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturers or OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Impact of Acquisitions 

We may from time to time engage in acquisitions involving some potential risks, including failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions. For example, with any past or future acquisitions, there is the possibility that: 

  ·    the business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture;     

  ·    technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected;     

  ·    the company may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities;     

  ·    unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems;     

  ·    the company may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business;     

  ·    higher than expected finance costs due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and     

  ·    the company may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases.     

Failure to continue implementing the company’s acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the company's share of industry sales predicated on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace. The company competes on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that our product will be able to compete successfully with these other companies. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively or an unexpected buildup in competitors' new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices. 

The environment remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain price increases that we announced from time to time will hold in the marketplace. While we expect that the environment will continue to absorb these price actions, changes in marketplace acceptance would negatively impact our results. Moreover, additional price discounting to maintain our competitive position could result in lower than anticipated realization. 

Page 12 

In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in the sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. 

Litigation and Contingency 

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty, environmental claims and lawsuits, including other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe these lawsuits and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on our results. However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. 

As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves based on our assessment of such contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings, may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve requiring us to make additional materials payments, which could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Risks to Global Operations 

Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, countries with political and economic instability, exposing our business operations to certain political and economic risks inherent in operating in some countries. These risks include: 

  ·    changes in regulations; imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints;     

  ·    imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas;     

  ·    national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and     

  ·    economic downturns, political instability and war or civil unrest may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries.     

As a normal practice, we do not assume such events in our outlooks unless already happening when the outlook is issued. So the occurrence of one of these events has the potential to negatively impact our results. 

Risks to Financial Services Segment 

Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer's management team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Because a significant amount of loans made by us are made at fixed interest rates, our business is subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in market interest rates may influence our financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows. In addition, since we make a significant amount of loans in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could also reduce our earnings and cash flows. We also rely on a number of diversified global debt capital markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for our global operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes, variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations and bank loans. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact our access to funding and the associated funding cost and reduce our earnings and cash flows. Although we manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market liquidity risks with a variety of techniques, including a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we use to hedge our exposure to these various types of risk are ineffective, we may incur losses. 

Page 13 

With respect to our insurance and investment management operations, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of our investment portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 

Market Acceptance of Products 

Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and customers. This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world. Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive products to the marketplace, or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have material impact on our business. 

Natural Disasters 

The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and overseas suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of our products to our distribution centers. 

For instance, on February 5, 2008, a certain portion of our facility in Oxford, Mississippi that manufactures hose couplings for most of our machinery was physically damaged by a tornado. For the next few months, assembly operations covering a broad range of machinery will be sporadically impacted as a result of the tornado damage. This event could adversely impact our results. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments as of December 31, 2007.       

Not applicable. 

Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2007.         

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

Page 14 

Item 2. Properties.