Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Business Overview  

Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, with formats that include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, SIX:02, as well as the retail stores of Runners Point Group, including Runners Point, Sidestep, and Run2, which was acquired during the second quarter of 2013. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes Footlocker.com, Inc. and other affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., CCS, and Tredex, the direct-to-customer subsidiary of Runners Point Group, which sell to customers through their Internet websites, mobile devices, and catalogs.  

The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the markets in which the Company operates, epitomizing high quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, such as Lady Foot Locker, and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, its direct-to-customers business. Through various marketing channels, including broadcast, digital, print, and various sports sponsorships and events, the Company reinforces its image with a consistent message-namely, that it is the destination for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment.  

Store Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) During the second quarter of 2013, the Company closed all CCS store locations. The CCS brand is operated solely as an e-commerce business.    

  (2) The Company acquired 194 existing Runners Point Group stores in July 2013; subsequently, the Company opened 2 additional stores.    

Athletic Stores  

The Company operates 3,473 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses:  

Foot Locker — “Sneaker Central” — Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletically-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including basketball, running, and training. Additionally, we operate 127 House of Hoops, primarily a shop-in-shop concept, which sells premier basketball inspired products. Foot Locker’s 1,868 stores are located in 23 countries including 1,044 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 128 in Canada, 604 in Europe, and a combined 92 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,400 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.   

14 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Lady Foot Locker — “The Place for Her” — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories for active women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear and apparel brands, as well as casual wear and an assortment of apparel designed for a variety of activities, including running, walking, training, and fitness. In November 2012, the Company announced the introduction of a new banner named “SIX:02.” This new banner is an elevated retail concept featuring top brands in fitness apparel and athletic footwear for women for a variety of activities, including CrossFit, yoga, strength training, and dance. Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02 operate 250 and 7 stores, respectively, and are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.  

Kids Foot Locker — “Where Kids Come First” — Kids Foot Locker is a children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Its 336 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Europe, and Canada. These stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.  

Footaction — “Head-to-Toe Sport Inspired Style” — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer. The primary customer is a confident, influential young male who is driven by style and is always thoughtful about his look. Its 277 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on marquee footwear and branded apparel. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet.  

Champs Sports — “We Know Game” — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. Its product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete head-to-toe merchandising stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Its 542 stores are located throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet.  

Runners Point — During the second quarter of 2013, the Company acquired the German retailer, Runners Point Group. The Athletic Stores Segment includes the retail stores of Runners Point Group, including Runners Point, specializing in running footwear, sneakers, running apparel, and equipment, Sidestep, a predominantly sports fashion footwear banner, and Run2, a newer concept aimed at the high performance serious runner. Runners Point, Sidestep, and Run2 operate, 100, 78, and 15 stores, respectively. These stores are located in Germany, Austria, and the Netherlands and have an average of 1,100 selling square feet.  

Direct-to-Customers  

The Company’s Direct-to-Customers segment is multi-branded and multi-channeled. This segment sells, through its affiliates, directly to customers through its Internet websites, mobile devices, and catalogs.  

The Direct-to-Customers segment operates the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, eastbayteamservices.com, ccs.com, as well as websites aligned with the brand names of its store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, six02.com kidsfootlocker.com, footaction.com, and champssports.com). Additionally, this segment includes Tredex, the direct-to-customer subsidiary of Runners Point Group, which operates the websites for runnerspoint.com, sidestep-sneakers.com, and sp24.com. These sites offer one of the largest online selections of running sport items in Europe, while providing a seamless link between e-commerce and store banners.  

Eastbay — “Prepare to Win” —  Eastbay is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing the high school athlete with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed, and private-label merchandise for a broad range of sports.  

CCS — “We are Board Culture” —  In 2008, the Company purchased CCS, an Internet and catalog retailer of skateboard equipment, apparel, footwear, and accessories. CCS serves the needs of the 12-24 year old seeking an authentic board lifestyle shop. CCS is anchored in skate but appealing to the surrounding board culture. The CCS format offers board lifestyle merchandise that will fit the needs of the customer all year long and stocks the best selection of both core and lifestyle brands.   

15 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Franchise Operations  

In 2006, the Company entered into a ten-year area development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L., for the operation of Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East, subject to certain restrictions. In 2007, the Company entered into a ten-year agreement with another third party for the exclusive right to open and operate Foot Locker stores in the Republic of Korea. Additionally, franchise stores located in Germany and Switzerland operate under the Runners Point and Stepside banners.  

A total of 73 franchised stores were operating at February 1, 2014. Of these stores, 27 are operating in the Middle East, 27 are operating in Germany and Switzerland, and 19 are operating in the Republic of Korea. Royalty income from the franchised stores was not significant for any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above.  

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  

In the following tables, the Company has presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP. The Company believes this non-GAAP information is a useful measure to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for 2013 as compared with prior years and is useful in assessing the Company’s progress in achieving its long-term financial objectives. The 2013 results represent the 52 weeks ended February 1, 2014 as compared with 53 weeks in 2012, and 52 weeks in the 2011 reporting year.  

The following represents a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed throughout the Overview of Consolidated Results:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

16 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company estimates the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying its marginal tax rate to each of the respective items.  

During 2013 and 2012, the Company recorded benefits of $3 million and $9 million, or $0.02 per diluted share and $0.06 per diluted share, respectively, to reflect the settlement of foreign tax audits, which resulted in a reduction in tax reserves established in prior periods. Additionally in 2012, the Company recorded a benefit of $1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, to reflect the repeal of the last two stages of certain Canadian provincial tax rate changes.  

When assessing Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), the Company adjusts its results to reflect its operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as if they were capital leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation.  

The closest GAAP measure is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA increased to 12.5 percent as compared with 12.4 percent in the prior year reflecting the Company’s overall performance in 2013. Our ROIC decreased slightly as compared with the prior year due to an increase in our average invested capital primarily as a result of the inclusion of Runners Point Group during the second quarter of 2013. This was partly offset by an increase in our earnings before interest and income taxes.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Represents net income of $429 million, $397 million, and $278 million divided by average total assets of $3,427 million, $3,209 million, and $2,973 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.    

  (2) See below for the calculation of ROIC.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

17 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

  (3) The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.8 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease.    

  (4) The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented.    

Overview of Consolidated Results  

The following represents our long-term financial objectives and our progress towards meeting those objectives. The following represents non-GAAP results for all the periods presented. In addition, the 2012 results are shown on a 52-week basis.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Highlights of our 2013 financial performance include:  

  • Sales and comparable-store sales, as noted in the table below, both increased and continued to benefit from exciting assortments and enhanced store formats across our various banners, as well as improved performance of the Company’s store banner.com websites. Our recent acquisition, Runners Point Group, contributed $164 million to the 2013 sales results; these sales are not included in the computation of comparable-store sales.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  • Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, was 32.8 percent in 2013 which was unchanged as compared with the prior-year period.    

  • SG&A expenses on a non-GAAP basis were 20.4 percent of sales, an improvement of 60 basis points as compared with the prior year, as we carefully managed expenses.    

  • Net income on a non-GAAP basis was $432 million or $2.87 diluted earnings per share, an increase of 16.2 percent from the prior-year period.    

  • Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at February 1, 2014 were $867 million, representing a decrease of $61 million. This reflects both the execution of various key initiatives noted in the items below and the Company’s strong performance. The Company ended the year in a strong financial position, with $728 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, net of debt and obligations under capital leases.    

  • The Company completed the acquisition of Runners Point Group during the second quarter of 2013 for $81 million, net of cash acquired. The Runners Point Group is a leading specialty athletic footwear and apparel multi-channel German retailer. The acquisition increases the Company’s market position in Germany. While only a partial year, its operations were accretive to the 2013 results.    

  • Capital expenditures during 2013 totaled $206 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 320 stores, the build-out of 84 new stores, as well as other technology and infrastructure projects.    

  • Dividends totaling $118 million were declared and paid during 2013, returning significant value to our shareholders.    

  • A total of 6.4 million shares were repurchased in the first year of our current share repurchase program at a cost of $229 million.     

18 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Summary of Consolidated Statements of Operations  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales of stores that are open at the period-end and have been open for more than one year. The computation of comparable-store sales also includes the sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment. Stores opened or closed during the period are not included in the comparable-store base; however, stores closed temporarily for relocation or remodeling are included. Computations exclude the effects of foreign currency fluctuations.  

Sales from acquired businesses that include inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations. Accordingly, sales of Runners Point Group have been excluded from the computation of comparable-store sales. Runners Point Group sales will be included in the computation beginning in October 2014.  

Sales of $6,505 million in 2013 increased by 5.2 percent from sales of $6,182 million in 2012, this represented a comparable-store sales increase of 4.2 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and sales of Runners Point Group, sales increased 2.4 percent as compared with the 53 weeks of 2012. Results for 2012 include the effect of the 53rd week, which represented sales of $81 million. Overall in 2013, footwear sales and apparel and accessories sales represented 77 percent and 23 percent of total sales, respectively.  

Sales in 2012 increased to $6,182 million, or by 9.9 percent as compared with 2011. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 11.4 percent as compared with 2011. Comparable-store sales increased by 9.4 percent. This increase primarily reflected higher footwear sales, which represented approximately 76 percent of sales. Apparel and accessories sales, also increased during 2012 and represented 24 percent of total sales.  

Gross Margin  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 32.8 percent in 2013, representing a decrease of 10 basis points as compared with the prior year. The decrease in the gross margin rate included an increase in the cost of merchandise of 10 basis points. Occupancy and buyers’ compensation expense rate remained unchanged, as a percentage of sales, as compared with the 53 weeks of 2012. The decline in the merchandise margin rate primarily reflects the effect of lower initial markups. Vendor allowances had no effect on the gross margin rate, as compared with the prior year. Excluding the effect of the 53rd week in 2012, the gross margin rate was flat as compared with the prior year.  

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 32.9 percent in 2012, representing an increase of 100 basis points as compared with the prior year. The increase in the gross margin rate included a decrease of 110 basis points in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation expense rate reflecting improved leverage on largely fixed costs, offset by an increase in the cost of merchandise of 10 basis points. The decline in the merchandise margin rate primarily reflected the effect of lower initial markups, higher markdowns in Europe, and the effect of lower shipping and handling income. The markdowns in Europe were necessary to ensure that merchandise inventories remained current and in line with sales trend. The Direct-to-Customers segment continued to provide free   

19 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

shipping offers to remain competitive with other Internet retailers. Vendor allowances had no effect on the gross margin rate, as compared with the prior year. Excluding the effect of the 53rd week in 2012, gross margin increased by 90 basis points as compared with 2011.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased by $40 million, or 3.1 percent, to $1,334 million in 2013, as compared with 2012. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $34 million. Runners Point Group, which was acquired in early July 2013, represented an incremental $45 million in expenses. Additionally, the Company incurred $6 million in integration and acquisition costs during 2013. Excluding foreign currency fluctuations, the effect of the recent acquisition, and the effect of the 53rd week in 2012, SG&A decreased by $4 million. The decrease reflects effective expense management, specifically variable costs.  

SG&A expenses increased by $50 million, or 4.0 percent, to $1,294 million in 2012, as compared with 2011. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $69 million. This increase reflects the effect of the 53rd week, which contributed $13 million in additional expenses, as well as higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. The Company also increased its marketing and advertising spending by $8 million during 2012 in order to support the Company’s strategic objective of differentiating its formats.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increases in both 2013 and 2012 reflect increased capital spending on store improvements and technology. In addition, the increase in the current year reflects the inclusion of depreciation and amortization relating to the Runners Point Group of $6 million. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations was not significant for 2013.  

Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net interest expense in 2013 was essentially unchanged from the prior year. The overall reduction in net interest expense in 2012 as compared with 2011 primarily reflected lower expenses associated with the Company’s revolving credit facility, which was amended at the end of 2011 with lower annual fees.  

The Company did not have any short-term borrowings, other than amounts outstanding in connection with capital leases, for any of the periods presented.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2013 was 35.3 percent, as compared with 34.6 percent in 2012. The Company regularly assesses the adequacy of the provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes. As a result, the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted as a result of new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitation. During the third quarter of 2013, the Company settled a foreign tax audit resulting in a reserve release of $3 million. The effective tax rate for 2013 also includes other reserve releases totaling $3 million due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations. Additionally, in connection with the purchase of Runners Point   

20 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Group, the Company recorded a tax expense of $1 million related to non-deductible acquisition costs. Excluding these items as well as the reserve releases in 2012, the effective tax rate for 2013 decreased as compared with 2012 primarily due to the effect of full implementation of international tax planning initiatives in 2013.  

The effective tax rate for 2012 was 34.6 percent, as compared with 36.0 percent in 2011. The effective tax rate for 2012 includes reserve releases of $13 million due to foreign and domestic audit settlements and lapses of statute of limitations. Additionally, included in 2012 are one time benefits totaling $4 million, representing foreign tax law changes of $2 million, additional U.S. tax credits of $1 million, and a $1 million benefit related to a Canadian provincial tax rate change that increased the value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. The 2011 effective rate included a benefit of $3 million from reserve releases as well as other true-up adjustments. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate increased primarily due to the higher proportion of income earned in higher tax jurisdictions in 2012.  

Segment Information  

The Company’s two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, are based on its method of internal reporting. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit reflects income before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The results for 2013 include a $2 million charge recorded in connection with the closure of all CCS stores. The results of 2012 include a non-cash impairment charge of $5 million to write down long-lived assets of the CCS stores as a result of the Company’s decision to close the stores during the first quarter of 2013.    

  (2) Included in the results for 2012 and 2011 are non-cash impairment charges of $7 million and $5 million, respectively, related to the CCS business.    

  (3) In 2011, the Company increased its 1993 Repositioning and 1991 Restructuring reserve by $1 million for repairs necessary to one of the locations comprising this reserve. This amount is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.    

  (4) Corporate expense for 2013 reflects the reallocation of expense between corporate and the operating divisions. Based upon an internal study of corporate expense, the allocation of such expenses to the operating divisions was increased by $27 million thereby reducing corporate expense.    

  (5) Other income includes non-operating items such as: gains from insurance recoveries; discounts/premiums paid on the repurchase and retirement of bonds; royalty income; and the changes in fair value, premiums paid, and realized gains associated with foreign currency option contracts.    

21 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2013 compared with 2012  

Athletic Stores sales were $5,790 million in 2013, an increase of 4.0 percent as compared with the prior year. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 3.7 percent in 2013. Comparable-store sales increased by 3.0 percent. The Athletic Stores segment includes $146 million of sales related to the Runners Point stores, which was acquired in early July 2013. Excluding the sales of the Runners Point stores, the increase was primarily driven by Kids Foot Locker, Foot Locker Europe, and domestic Foot Locker. Kids Foot Locker and Foot Locker Europe increased their store count by 31 and 14 stores, respectively, during 2013. The increase in these banners was partially offset by sales declines in Lady Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports. Lady Foot Locker’s sales declined in 2013 as management continues to close underperforming stores and redefine the product offerings. Lady Foot Locker’s store count declined by 46 stores during 2013. Test locations, including SIX:02 stores, are performing better than the balance of the chain and continue to be evaluated. Various initiatives are being implemented including the recent launch of the SIX:02 e-commerce website, in order to optimize performance before a roll-out strategy is determined. On a comparable-store sales basis, Footaction reported a modest increase for the year. Comparable-store sales for Champs Sports were negatively affected, in part, by the level of store remodel projects, which require temporary store closure during remodel.  

Within the Athletic Stores segment footwear was the biggest driver, led by our children’s category, which had strong gains across all banners. Footwear sales increased in our largest category, basketball, which benefited from key marquee player shoes. The segment is also benefiting from the continued expansion of the shop-in-shop partnerships with our various vendors.  

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $656 million in 2013 as compared with $653 million in 2012, an increase of $3 million. Included in the 2013 results are costs of $2 million associated with the closure of the CCS stores. While the results of the Runners Point stores were accretive during the period, it was not significant. Additionally, the 2013 results reflect the reallocation of corporate expense to this segment, discussed more fully below. Excluding these items, division profit margin for 2013 would have been essentially unchanged.  

2012 compared with 2011  

Athletic Stores sales of $5,568 million increased 9.0 percent in 2012. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 10.6 percent in 2012. Comparable-store sales increased by 8.5 percent. Most divisions within this segment experienced strong increases as compared with the prior year, led by Champs Sports and domestic Foot Locker. Foot Locker Europe had a modest comparable-store sales decline for the year reflecting the macroeconomic conditions in that region. Lady Foot Locker’s sales declined in 2012 reflecting losses from certain classic and lifestyle footwear, partially offset by an increase in performance footwear. Additionally, Lady Foot Locker operated 29 fewer stores as management has continued to focus on closing underperforming stores. Comparable-store sales for the division were down slightly for the year. During 2012, the Company introduced a new banner, SIX:02, an elevated retail concept featuring top brands in fitness apparel and athletic footwear for women. The Company opened 3 SIX:02 stores during the fourth quarter of 2012. In total, all categories, footwear, apparel and accessories, increased during 2012. Within the footwear category, the highest percentage increase came from our children’s category, which had strong gains across all banners, supported by the “Go Big” marketing campaign in Kids Foot Locker. Footwear sales increased in our largest category, basketball, which benefited from key marquee player shoes. Despite the overall decline in Lady Foot Locker sales, our overall women’s business modestly increased, as some of those customers found appealing product in our other banners. Apparel sales reflected strength in domestic sales, partially offset by a slight decline in Europe’s apparel sales.   

22 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $653 million in 2012 as compared with $495 million in 2011, an increase of $158 million. During the fourth quarter of 2012 an impairment charge of $5 million was recorded to write down long-lived assets of the CCS stores as a result of the Company’s decision to close these stores. Foreign currency fluctuations negatively affected division profit by approximately $9 million as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. Division profit increased primarily as a result of strong sales and an improved gross margin rate driven by improved leverage of the fixed expenses within gross margin, contributing to an overall profit flow-through of 34.5 percent. 

Direct-to-Customers  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2013 compared with 2012  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 16.4 percent to $715 million in 2013, as compared with $614 million in 2012. Comparable sales increased 14.8 percent from the prior year. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes $18 million of sales related to the e-commerce division of Runners Point Group, which the Company acquired during the second quarter of 2013. Excluding these sales, the increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance related to the Company’s store-banner websites, as well as increased Eastbay sales. Of the total increase, sales from our store-banner websites comprised approximately three quarters of the increase reflecting success of several initiatives, including improving the connectivity of the store banners to the e-commerce sites, investments in technology to improve the shopping experience, and investments in making the sites more engaging. These increases were offset, in part, by a further decline in the CCS business.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $84 million in 2013, as compared with $65 million in 2012. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 11.7 percent in 2013 and 10.6 percent in 2012. The 2013 results reflect the reallocation of corporate expense, discussed more fully below. Excluding this change division profit margin would have been 12.3 percent. During 2012, an impairment charge of $7 million was recorded to write down CCS intangible assets. Excluding these items, division profit increased by $17 million. The effect of the acquisition was not significant to this segment’s division profit.  

2012 compared with 2011  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 19.7 percent to $614 million in 2012, as compared with $513 million in 2011. On a comparable 52 week basis, sales increased 17.7 percent. The increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance for the Company’s store-banner websites, as well as increased Eastbay sales. Of the total increase, sales from our store-banner websites comprised approximately 60 percent of the increase. This improvement reflected further investment in our websites in order to provide excellent service in our digital channels, including easy navigation, timely shipping, helpful call center assistance, and entertaining and engaging content.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $65 million in 2012, as compared with $45 million in 2011. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 10.6 percent in 2012 and 8.8 percent in 2011. During the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011, impairment charges of $7 million and $5 million, respectively, were recorded to write down CCS intangible assets, specifically the non-amortizing tradename. The 2012 impairment was primarily the result of continued reductions in revenue projections, coupled with a decrease in the assumed royalty rate as a result of lower profitability. Excluding the impairment charges in each of the periods, division profit increased by $22 million reflecting the strong sales performance and a lower expense rate.  

Corporate Expense  

Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated   

23 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $12 million, $13 million, and $11 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  

Corporate expense decreased by $32 million to $76 million in 2013, as compared with 2012. Based upon an internal study of corporate expense, the allocation of such expenses to the operating divisions was increased thereby reducing corporate expense by $27 million for 2013. In addition, incentive compensation decreased $11 million and legal expenses decreased by $4 million as 2012 reflected a litigation charge. Additionally, as noted above depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $1 million. These decreases were partially offset by $6 million of costs related to the Company’s acquisition and integration of Runners Point Group as well as an increase of $5 million for share-based compensation expense.  

Corporate expense increased by $6 million to $108 million in 2012, as compared with 2011. The increase represents increased depreciation and amortization of $2 million, $2 million of increased share-based compensation expense, and a charge of $4 million related to litigation, offset, in part, by expense savings in other corporate areas. The effect of the 53rd week on corporate expense was not significant.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  

The Company’s primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from operations, while the principal uses of cash have been to: fund inventory and other working capital requirements; finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, Internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and fund other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. Management believes its cash, cash equivalents, and future cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund these requirements.  

As of February 1, 2014, the Company had $426 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. Because we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from potential future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Depending on the source, amount, and timing of a repatriation, some tax may be payable. The Company believes that its cash invested domestically and future domestic cash flows are sufficient to satisfy domestic requirements.  

The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. On February 20, 2013, the Board of Directors approved a new 3-year, $600 million share repurchase program extending through January 2016, replacing the Company’s previous $400 million program which terminated on that date. As of February 1, 2014, approximately $371 million is remaining on this program.  

Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations.  

Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key vendors. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key vendors. In 2013 and 2012, the Company purchased approximately 88 percent and 86 percent, respectively, of its merchandise from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 68 percent in 2013 and 65 percent in 2012 was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc.   

24 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company’s 2014 planned capital expenditures and lease acquisition costs are approximately $220 million. Planned capital expenditures are $219 million and planned lease acquisition costs related to the Company’s operations in Europe are $1 million. The Company’s planned capital expenditures include $181 million related to modernizations of existing stores and the planned opening of 62 new stores, as well as $38 million for the development of information systems and infrastructure. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it.  

Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure)  

In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, the Company uses free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength of the Company and its ability to generate cash. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). The Company believes the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from the Company’s underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management.  

Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

Operating activities provided cash of $530 million in 2013, compared with $416 million in 2012. These amounts reflect income adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. The improvement represents the Company’s earnings strength. During 2013, the Company contributed $2 million to its Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $25 million and $1 million contributed to the U.S. and Canadian plans, respectively, in 2012. Cash paid for income taxes was $175 million for 2013 as compared with $230 million for 2012.  

Operating activities provided cash of $416 million in 2012, compared with $497 million in 2011. Non-cash impairment and other charges were $12 million and $5 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. These impairment charges were related to the CCS business. During 2012, the Company contributed $26 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $28 million contributed in 2011. The increase in merchandise inventories for 2012 of $91 million was due to the shift caused by the 53rd week, which was planned in order to support sales for February, which is typically a strong period.  

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities was $248 million in 2013 as compared with $212 million in 2012. During the second quarter of 2013, the Company completed its purchase of Runners Point Group for $81 million, net of cash acquired. Capital expenditures in 2013 were $206 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 320 stores, the build-out of 84 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades, representing an increase of $43 million as compared with the prior year. These increases were partially offset by net sales and maturities of $37 million of short-term investments during 2013.  

Net cash used in investing activities was $212 million in 2012 as compared with $149 million in 2011. The increase was primarily due to the Company’s net purchases of $49 million of short-term investments as well as higher capital expenditures. Capital expenditures were $163 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 198 stores,   

25 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

the build-out of 85 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades and e-commerce website enhancements, representing an increase of $11 million as compared with the prior year.  

Financing Activities  

Net cash used in financing activities was $309 million in 2013 as compared with $181 million in 2012. During 2013, the Company repurchased 6,424,286 shares of its common stock under its share repurchase program for $229 million. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends totaling $118 million and $109 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, representing a quarterly rate of $0.20 and $0.18 per share in 2013 and 2012, respectively. During 2013 and 2012, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $30 million and $48 million, respectively. In connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $9 million and $11 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $181 million in 2012 as compared with $178 million in 2011. During 2012, the Company repurchased 4,000,161 shares of its common stock under its share repurchase program for $129 million. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends totaling $109 million and $101 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing a quarterly rate of $0.18 and $0.165 per share in 2012 and 2011, respectively. During 2012 and 2011, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $48 million and $22 million, respectively. In connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $11 million and $5 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

Capital Structure  

On January 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “2011 Restated Credit Agreement”) with its banks. The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million asset based revolving credit facility maturing on January 27, 2017. In addition, during the term of the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement, the Company may make up to four requests for additional credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million. Interest is based on the LIBOR rate in effect at the time of the borrowing plus a 1.25 to 1.50 percent margin depending on certain provisions as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement. The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets, but excluding intellectual property. The Company is not required to comply with any financial covenants as long as there are no outstanding borrowings. With regard to the payment of dividends and share repurchases, there are no restrictions if the Company is not borrowing and the payments are funded through cash on hand. If the Company is borrowing, Availability as of the end of each fiscal month during the subsequent projected six fiscal months following the payment must be at least 20 percent of the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and the Borrowing Base (all terms as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement). The Company’s management does not currently expect to borrow under the facility in 2014, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.  

Credit Rating  

As of March 31, 2014, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB+ and Ba2, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes Ba3.  

Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure)  

For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.8 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease.   

26 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.  

The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments decreased by $61 million during 2013, representing the acquisition of the Runners Point Group offset in large part by the result of strong cash flow generation from operating activities.  

Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent increased 530 basis points in 2013. The change in total debt including the present value of the operating leases, as compared with the prior-year period, primarily reflects the acquisition of Runners Point Group and their associated lease liabilities, the effect of lease renewals, and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, offset in part by store closures.  

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at February 1, 2014:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

27 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

  (1) The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $13 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt and Obligations Under Capital Leases note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 25 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown.    

  (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at February 1, 2014 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. The amount presented in the table represents the Company’s 2014 Canadian qualified pension contributions of $2 million. Other than this liability, other amounts (including the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits of $46 million, as well as penalties and interest of $2 million) have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known has not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (4) Represents the unused domestic lines of credit pursuant to the Company’s $200 million revolving credit agreement. The Company’s management currently does not expect to borrow under the facility in 2014, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.    

  (5) Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at February 1, 2014. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain vendors in response to shifts in consumer preferences.    

  (6) Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements.    

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing (other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business as disclosed above) or unconsolidated special purpose entities. The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. The Company’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the Company’s financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

Acquisitions  

The Company accounts for acquisitions by recording the net assets of acquired businesses at fair value, and making estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of these acquired assets and liabilities. The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired businesses based, in part, upon internal estimates of cash flows and considering the report of a third-party valuation expert retained to assist the Company. Changes to the assumptions used to estimate the fair value could affect the recorded amounts of the assets acquired and the resultant goodwill.   

28 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Merchandise Inventories  

Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts.  

Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

Vendor Reimbursements  

In the normal course of business, the Company receives allowances from its vendors for markdowns taken. Vendor allowances are recognized as a reduction in cost of sales in the period in which the markdowns are taken. Vendor allowances contributed 20 basis points to the 2013 gross margin rate. The Company also has volume-related agreements with certain vendors, under which it receives rebates based on fixed percentages of cost purchases. These volume-related rebates are recorded in cost of sales when the product is sold and were not significant to the 2013 gross margin rate.  

The Company receives support from some of its vendors in the form of reimbursements for cooperative advertising and catalog costs for the launch and promotion of certain products. The reimbursements are agreed upon with vendors for specific advertising campaigns and catalogs. Cooperative income, to the extent that it reimburses specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date, is recorded in SG&A in the same period as the associated expenses are incurred. Cooperative reimbursements amounted to approximately 18 percent and 14 percent of total advertising and catalog costs, respectively, in 2013. Reimbursements received that are in excess of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date are recognized as a reduction to the cost of merchandise and are reflected in cost of sales as the merchandise is sold. Such amounts were not significant in 2013.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

The Company performs an impairment review when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s strategic long-range plans, in determining in performing an impairment review. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results.  

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of its fiscal year or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The review of impairment consists of either using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the assets is less than their respective carrying values or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. In performing the qualitative assessment, we consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including   

29 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. If, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed using a two-step test. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests, or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. We performed our annual goodwill impairment assessments during 2013, using a qualitative approach. Based on the results of the impairment assessments performed, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and there are no reporting units at risk of impairment.  

Owned trademarks and tradenames that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. The fair values of purchased intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates, and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. The Company’s review did not result in any impairment charges for the year ended February 1, 2014.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expected term of options granted is estimated using historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 6 to 8 percent depending if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term. The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would have a 1 percent change to the fair value. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 5 percent. Share-based compensation expense is recorded for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on its historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options.  

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

The Company determines its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities based upon assumptions related to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on invested plan assets, salary increases, age, and mortality, among others. Management reviews all assumptions annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans.  

Long-Term Rate of Return Assumption — The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected   

30 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2013 pension expense was 6.24 percent.  

A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2013 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of its inactive participants.  

Discount Rate — An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. In 2011, the Company changed how the discount rate was selected to measure the present value of U.S. benefit obligations from the Citibank Pension Discount curve to Towers Watson’s Bond:Link model. The current discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2013 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were 4.32 percent and 4.20 percent, respectively.  

Changing the weighted-average discount rate by 50 basis points would have changed the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at February 1, 2014 by approximately $30 million and $33 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $1 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2013 pension expense or postretirement income.  

Trend Rate — The Company maintains two postretirement medical plans, one covering certain executive officers and key employees of the Company (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $2 million. With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.  

The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $2 million and pension expense of approximately $20 million in 2014.  

Income Taxes  

In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon the Company’s strategic long-range plans. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2013 would have resulted in a $5 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.  

The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.  

The Company expects its 2014 effective tax rate to approximate 36.5 percent, excluding the effect of any nonrecurring items that may occur. The actual rate will vary depending primarily on the percentage of the Company’s income earned in the United States as compared with its international operations.   

31 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

During 2013, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2013-02”). ASU 2013-02 amended existing guidance by requiring additional disclosure either on the face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial statements of significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The provisions of this new guidance were effective prospectively as of the beginning of 2013. Accordingly, enhanced footnote disclosure is included in Note 17, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss. The adoption of ASU 2013-02 had no effect on our results of operations or financial position.  

Other recently issued accounting pronouncements did not, or are not believed by management to, have a material effect on the Company’s present or future consolidated financial statements.  

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor), pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business and strategic plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with global product sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution.  

For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk