PART I  

Item 1. Business  

General  

Foot Locker, Inc., incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1989, is a leading global retailer of athletically inspired shoes and apparel, operating 3,473 primarily mall-based stores in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand as of February 1, 2014. Foot Locker, Inc. and its subsidiaries hereafter are referred to as the “Registrant,” “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us.” Information regarding the business is contained under the “Business Overview” section in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

The Company maintains a website on the Internet at www.footlocker-inc.com. The Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC by clicking on the “SEC Filings” link. The Corporate Governance section of the Company’s corporate website contains the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Committee Charters, and the Company’s Code of Business Conduct for directors, officers and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer. Copies of these documents may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Company’s Corporate Secretary at 112 West 34th Street, New York, N.Y. 10120. The Company intends to promptly disclose amendments to the Code of Business Conduct and waivers of the Code for directors and executive officers on the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s corporate website.  

Information Regarding Business Segments and Geographic Areas  

The financial information concerning business segments, divisions and geographic areas is contained under the “Business Overview” and “Segment Information” sections in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Information regarding sales, operating results and identifiable assets of the Company by business segment and by geographic area is contained under the Segment Information note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

The service marks and trademarks appearing in this report (except for Nike, Inc. and Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L.) are owned by Foot Locker, Inc. or its subsidiaries.  

Employees  

The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had 14,267 full-time and 29,251 part-time employees at February 1, 2014. The Company considers employee relations to be satisfactory.  

Competition  

Financial information concerning competition is contained under the “Business Risk” section in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Merchandise Purchases  

Financial information concerning merchandise purchases is contained under the “Liquidity” section in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and under the “Business Risk” section in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”   

1 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Item 1A. Risk Factors