Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 INDEX  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 35  
 Introduction   

 The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world.  

 Over the past year, our Business Standards Committee performed an extensive review of our business and delivered recommendations designed to ensure that our business standards and practices are of the highest quality, that they meet or exceed the expectations of our clients, regulators and other stakeholders, and that they contribute to overall financial stability and economic opportunity. These recommendations have been approved by our senior management and the Board of Directors of Group Inc. (Board) and implementation has already begun. In the fourth quarter of 2010, consistent with management’s view of the firm’s activities and the recommendations of our Business Standards Committee, we reorganized our three previous business segments into four new business segments: Investment Banking, Institutional Client Services, Investing & Lending and Investment Management. Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis. See “Results of Operations” below for further information about our business segments.  

 When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “this Form 10-K” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.  

 All references to 2010, 2009 and 2008, unless specifically stated otherwise, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and November 28, 2008, respectively. Any reference to a future year refers to a fiscal year ending on   

 December 31 of that year. All references to December 2008, unless specifically stated otherwise, refer to our fiscal one month ended, or the date, as the context requires, December 26, 2008. Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the current presentation.  

 In this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, we have included information that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. This information includes statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements about our future status, activities or reporting under U.S. or non-U.S. banking and financial regulation, and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in these forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed below under “Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses” as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K and “Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  

 36  
 Executive Overview   

 Our diluted earnings per common share were $13.18 for the year ended December 2010, compared with $22.13 for the year ended December 2009. Return on average common shareholders’ equity (ROE) 1 was 11.5% for 2010, compared with 22.5% for 2009. Excluding the impact of the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax, the $550 million SEC settlement and the $305 million impairment of our New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Designated Market Maker (DMM) rights, diluted earnings per common share were $15.22 2 and ROE was 13.1% 2 for 2010.  

 Book value per common share increased by approximately 10% to $128.72 and tangible book value per common share 3 increased by approximately 9% to $118.63 compared with the end of 2009. Under Basel 1, our Tier 1 capital ratio 4 was 16.0% and our Tier 1 common ratio 4 was 13.3% as of December 2010. Our total assets were $911 billion as of December 2010, 7% higher compared with the end of 2009.  

 The firm generated net revenues of $39.16 billion and net earnings of $8.35 billion for 2010, despite a challenging operating environment. These results reflected significantly lower net revenues in Institutional Client Services and slightly lower net revenues in Investment Banking compared with 2009. These decreases were partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in Investing & Lending and higher net revenues in Investment Management. The results of each of our business segments are discussed below.   

 Institutional Client Services  

 The decrease in Institutional Client Services reflected significantly lower net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and, to a lesser extent, Equities. During 2010, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging environment characterized by lower client activity levels, which reflected broad market concerns including European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, as well as tighter bid/offer spreads. The decrease in net revenues compared with a particularly strong 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower results in interest rate products, credit products, commodities and, to a lesser extent, currencies. These decreases were partially offset by higher net revenues in mortgages.  

 The decline in Equities compared with 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in equities client execution, principally due to significantly lower results in derivatives and shares. Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009, primarily reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition, securities services net revenues were significantly lower compared with 2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities lending spreads, principally due to the impact of changes in the composition of customer balances, partially offset by the impact of higher average customer balances. During 2010, although equity markets were volatile during the first half of the year, equity prices generally improved and volatility levels declined in the second half of the year.  

 1. See “Results of Operations — Financial Overview” below for further information about our calculation of ROE.  

 2. We believe that presenting our results excluding the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the NYSE DMM rights impairment is meaningful, as excluding these items increases the comparability of period-to-period results. See “Results of Operations — Financial Overview” below for further information about our calculation of diluted earnings per common share and ROE excluding the impact of these items.  

 3. We believe that tangible book value per common share is meaningful because it is one of the measures that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy. See “Equity Capital — Other Capital Metrics” below for further information about our calculation of tangible book value per common share.  

 4. See “Equity Capital — Consolidated Regulatory Capital Ratios” below for further information about our Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 common ratio.   

 37  
 Investment Banking  

 The decrease in Investment Banking reflected lower net revenues in our Underwriting business, partially offset by higher net revenues in Financial Advisory. The decline in Underwriting reflected lower net revenues in equity underwriting, principally due to a decline in client activity in comparison to 2009, which included significant capital-raising activity by financial institution clients. Net revenues in debt underwriting were essentially unchanged compared with 2009. The increase in Financial Advisory primarily reflected an increase in client activity.  

 Investing & Lending  

 During 2010, an increase in global equity markets and tighter credit spreads provided a favorable backdrop for our Investing & Lending business. Results in Investing & Lending for 2010 primarily reflected a gain of $747 million from our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC), a net gain of $2.69 billion from other equity securities and a net gain of $2.60 billion from debt securities and loans.  

 Investment Management  

 The increase in Investment Management primarily reflected higher incentive fees across our alternative investment products. Management and other fees also increased, reflecting favorable changes in the mix of assets under management, as well as the impact of appreciation in the value of client assets. During 2010, assets under management decreased 4% to $840 billion, primarily reflecting outflows in money market assets, consistent with industry trends.  

 Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets, economic conditions generally and other factors. For a further discussion of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see “Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses” below as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.   

 Business Environment   

 Global economic conditions generally improved in 2010, as real gross domestic product (GDP) grew in most major economies following declines in 2009, and growth in emerging markets was strong. However, certain unfavorable conditions emerged during the second quarter of 2010 that made the environment more challenging for our businesses, including broad market concerns over European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty regarding financial regulatory reform, sharply higher equity volatility levels, lower global equity prices and wider corporate credit spreads. During the second half of 2010, some of these conditions reversed, as equity volatility levels decreased, global equity prices generally recovered and corporate credit spreads narrowed. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced quantitative easing measures during the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to stimulate economic growth and protect against the risk of deflation. Industry-wide announced mergers and acquisitions volumes increased, while industry-wide debt offerings volumes decreased compared with 2009. A significant increase in initial public offerings volumes compared with 2009 offset declines in common stock follow-on offerings and convertible offerings volumes, as 2009 included significant capital-raising activity by financial institutions. For a further discussion of how market conditions affect our businesses, see “Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses” below as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  

 Global  

 The global economy strengthened during 2010, as real GDP increased in most major economies and economic growth in emerging markets accelerated. The global recovery largely reflected an increase in business investment, following a significant decline in 2009. In addition, international trade grew strongly in 2010. Unemployment levels generally stabilized, although the rate of unemployment remained elevated in some economies. During 2010, the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England left interest rates unchanged, while the Bank of Japan reduced its target overnight call rate and the People’s Bank of China increased its one-year benchmark lending rate. The price of crude oil increased significantly during 2010. The U.S. dollar strengthened against the Euro and the British pound, but weakened against the Japanese yen.    

 38  
 United States  

 In the United States, real GDP increased by an estimated 2.8% in 2010, compared with a decline of 2.6% in 2009. Growth was primarily supported by improved business investment spending, as well as an increase in federal government spending. In addition, consumer spending and business and consumer confidence improved during the year. However, residential investment remained weak. Measures of core inflation decreased during the year, reflecting high levels of unemployment and significant excess production capacity, which caused downward pressure on wages and prices. The U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its federal funds rate at a target range of zero to 0.25% during the year. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced quantitative easing measures during the fourth quarter of 2010, including its intention to purchase significant amounts of U.S. Treasury debt. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell by 55 basis points to 3.30% during 2010. The NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the year higher by 17%, 13% and 11%, respectively.  

 Europe  

 Real GDP in the Eurozone economies increased by an estimated 1.7% in 2010, compared with a decline of 4.0% in 2009. Growth primarily reflected an increase in consumer and government expenditure, as well as the rebuilding of inventories. Exports and imports increased significantly, although the contribution from net trade was not significant. Business investment was weak for the year, but showed signs of recovery in the second half of the year, and surveys of business and consumer confidence improved. However, economic growth in certain Eurozone economies continued to be weighed down by fiscal challenges and banking sector concerns. In addition, concerns about sovereign debt risk in certain Eurozone economies intensified, contributing to higher volatility and funding pressures. The European Central Bank and certain governments in the Eurozone took a range of policy measures to address these issues. Measures of core inflation remained low and the European Central Bank maintained its main refinancing operations rate at 1.00% during the year. In the United Kingdom, real GDP increased by an estimated 1.3% for 2010, compared with a decrease of 4.9% in 2009. The Bank of England maintained its official bank rate at 0.50% during the year. Long-term government bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K. decreased during 2010. The Euro and British pound depreciated by 7% and 3%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during 2010. The DAX   

 Index and the FTSE 100 Index increased by 16% and 9%, respectively, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and the CAC 40 Index declined by 6% and 3%, respectively, compared with the end of 2009.  

 Asia  

 In Japan, real GDP increased by an estimated 3.9% in 2010, compared with a decrease of 6.3% in 2009. Growth primarily reflected a significant increase in exports, as well as an increase in consumer spending. Measures of inflation remained negative during 2010. The Bank of Japan reduced its target overnight call rate from 0.10% to a range of zero to 0.10% and the yield on 10-year Japanese government bonds fell by 17 basis points to 1.13%. The Japanese yen appreciated by 13% against the U.S. dollar. The Nikkei 225 Index decreased 3% during the year. In China, real GDP growth was an estimated 10.3% in 2010, up from 9.2% in 2009. Economic growth was broad-based, with significant increases in exports, retail spending and business investment. Measures of inflation increased during 2010, reflecting continued growth in demand. The People’s Bank of China raised its one-year benchmark lending rate by 50 basis points during the year to 5.81% and the Chinese yuan appreciated by 3% against the U.S. dollar. The Shanghai Composite Index decreased by 14% during 2010, partially due to concerns over the effect of tighter policy on economic growth. In India, real GDP growth was an estimated 8.5% in 2010, up from 7.5% in 2009. Growth primarily reflected an increase in domestic demand, partially offset by the impact of lower net exports. The rate of wholesale inflation increased during the year. The Indian rupee appreciated by 3% against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets in Hong Kong ended the year higher and equity markets in India and South Korea increased significantly during 2010.  

 Other Markets  

 In Brazil, real GDP increased by an estimated 7.6% in 2010, compared with a decline of 0.6% in 2009. The increase in real GDP primarily reflected an increase in domestic demand. The Brazilian real strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Brazilian equity prices ended the year slightly higher compared with the end of 2009. In Russia, real GDP increased by an estimated 4.0% in 2010, compared with a decline of 7.9% in 2009. Rising oil prices led to a significant improvement in investment growth, following a decline in 2009. The Russian ruble was essentially unchanged against the U.S. dollar and Russian equity prices ended the year significantly higher compared with 2009.  

 39  
 Critical Accounting Policies   

 Fair Value  

 Fair Value Hierarchy. Financial instruments owned, at fair value and Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value (i.e., inventory), as well as certain other financial assets and financial liabilities, are reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value (i.e., marked-to-market), with related gains or losses generally recognized in our consolidated statements of earnings. The use of fair value to measure financial instruments is fundamental to our risk management practices and is our most critical accounting policy.  

 The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In determining fair value, the hierarchy under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) gives (i) the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 inputs), (ii) the next priority to inputs other than level 1 inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly (level 2 inputs), and (iii) the lowest priority to inputs that cannot be observed in market activity (level 3 inputs). Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to their fair value measurement.  

 The fair values for substantially all of our financial assets and financial liabilities, including derivatives, are based on observable prices and inputs and are classified in levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy. Certain level 2 financial instruments may require appropriate discounts (i.e., valuation adjustments) for factors such as:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Valuation adjustments are generally based on market evidence.   

 Instruments categorized within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, which represent approximately 5% of the firm’s total assets, require one or more significant inputs that are not observable. Absent evidence to the contrary, instruments classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are initially valued at transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial estimate of fair value. Subsequent to the transaction date, we use other methodologies to determine fair value, which vary based on the type of instrument. Estimating the fair value of level 3 financial instruments may require judgments to be made. These judgments include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence.  

 Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. Our control infrastructure is independent of the revenue-producing units and is fundamental to ensuring that all of our financial instruments are appropriately valued at market-clearing levels. In particular, our independent price verification process is critical to ensuring that financial instruments are properly valued.    

 40  
 Price Verification. The objective of price verification is to have an informed and independent opinion with regard to the valuation of financial instruments under review. Instruments that have one or more significant inputs which cannot be corroborated by external market data are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

 In situations where there is a question about a valuation, the ultimate valuation is determined by senior managers in control and support functions that are independent of the revenue-producing units (independent control and support functions). Price verification strategies utilized by our independent control and support functions include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 See Notes 5 through 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about fair value measurements.   

 Review of Net Revenues. Independent control and support functions ensure adherence to our pricing policy through a combination of daily procedures, one of which is the process of validating and understanding results by attributing and explaining net revenues by the underlying factors. Through this process we independently validate net revenues, identify and resolve potential fair value or trade booking issues on a timely basis and ensure that risks are being properly categorized and quantified.  

 Review of Valuation Models. Quantitative professionals within our Market Risk Management department (Market Risk Management) perform an independent model approval process. This process incorporates a review of a diverse set of model and trade parameters across a broad range of values (including extreme and/or improbable conditions) in order to critically evaluate:  

  •   a model’s suitability for valuation and risk management of a particular instrument type;   

  •   the model’s accuracy in reflecting the characteristics of the related product and its significant risks;   

  •   the suitability and properties of the numerical algorithms incorporated in the model;   

  •   the model’s consistency with models for similar products; and   

  •   the model’s sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions.    

 New or changed models are reviewed and approved. Models are evaluated and re-approved annually to assess the impact of any changes in the product or market and any market developments in pricing theories.  

 See “Market Risk Management” and “Credit Risk Management” for a further discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our businesses.    

 41  
 Level 3 Financial Assets at Fair Value. The table below presents financial assets measured at fair value and the amount of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

 Total level 3 assets were $45.38 billion and $46.48 billion as of December 2010 and December 2009, respectively. The decrease in level 3 assets during the year ended December 2010 primarily reflected (i) sales and transfers to level 2 of loans and securities backed by commercial real estate; and (ii) net   

 reductions in level 3 financial instruments as a result of the consolidations of certain variable interest entities (VIEs). This decrease was partially offset by an increase in derivatives primarily due to unrealized gains on credit derivatives, principally resulting from changes in level 2 inputs.  

 See Notes 5 through 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about fair value measurements.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily backed by commercial and residential real estate.   

  2.   Includes certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt.     

 42  
 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

 Goodwill. Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the acquisition date. The reorganization of the firm’s segments in 2010 resulted in the reallocation of assets, including goodwill, and liabilities across our reporting units. See Notes 13 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information on segments.  

 We test the goodwill in each of our reporting units for impairment at least annually, by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its estimated net book value. We derive the fair value based on valuation techniques we believe market participants would use (i.e., observable price-to-earnings multiples and price-to-book multiples). We derive the net book value by estimating the amount of shareholders’ equity required to support the activities of each reporting unit. Estimating the fair value of our reporting units requires management to make judgments. Critical inputs include (i) projected earnings, (ii) estimated long-term growth rates and (iii) cost of equity. Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2010 fourth quarter and no impairment was identified. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the carrying value of our goodwill by operating segment.  

 Identifiable Intangible Assets. We amortize our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated lives or, in the case of insurance contracts, in proportion to estimated gross profits or premium revenues. Identifiable intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying value may not be fully recoverable.   

 An impairment loss, generally calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the carrying value and estimated remaining lives of our identifiable intangible assets by major asset class and the carrying value of our identifiable intangible assets by operating segment.  

 A prolonged period of market weakness could adversely impact our businesses and impair the value of our identifiable intangible assets. In addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment of our identifiable intangible assets, including (i) changes in trading volumes or market structure that could adversely affect our NYSE DMM business (see discussion below), (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, (iii) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and life insurance business, (iv) decreases in cash receipts from television broadcast royalties or (v) decreases in revenues from commodity-related customer contracts and relationships. Management judgment is required to evaluate whether indications of potential impairment have occurred, and to test intangibles for impairment if required.  

 NYSE DMM Rights. During the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of continuing weak operating results in our NYSE DMM business, we tested our NYSE DMM rights for impairment in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 360. Because the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights exceeded the projected undiscounted cash flows over the estimated remaining useful life of our NYSE DMM rights, we determined that the rights were impaired. We recorded an impairment loss of $305 million, which was included in our Institutional Client Services segment in the fourth quarter of 2010. This impairment loss represented the excess of the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights over their estimated fair value. We estimated this fair value, which is a level 3 measurement, using a relative value analysis which incorporated a comparison to another DMM portfolio that was transacted between third parties. As of December 2010, the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights was $76 million.    

 43  
 Use of Estimates   

 The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also important in determining provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits.  

 We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. In accounting for income taxes, we estimate and provide for potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition standard under ASC 740. See Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about accounting for income taxes.   

 Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. See Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information on certain judicial, regulatory and legal proceedings.   

 Results of Operations   

 The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market conditions. See “Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses” below and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of the impact of economic and market conditions on our results of operations.  

 44  
 Financial Overview  

 The table below presents an overview of our financial results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   ROE is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly common shareholders’ equity. The table below presents our average common shareholders’ equity.    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  2.   We believe that presenting our results excluding the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the NYSE DMM rights impairment is meaningful, as excluding these items increases the comparability of period-to-period results. The tables below present the calculation of net earnings applicable to common shareholders, diluted earnings per common share and average common shareholders’ equity excluding the impact of these amounts.    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 45  
 Net Revenues  

 2010 versus 2009. Net revenues were $39.16 billion for 2010, 13% lower than 2009, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in Institutional Client Services and slightly lower net revenues in Investment Banking. These decreases were partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in Investing & Lending and higher net revenues in Investment Management.  

  •   Institutional Client Services. The decrease in Institutional Client Services reflected significantly lower net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and, to a lesser extent, Equities. During 2010, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging environment characterized by lower client activity levels, which reflected broad market concerns including European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, as well as tighter bid/offer spreads. The decrease in net revenues compared with a particularly strong 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower results in interest rate products, credit products, commodities and, to a lesser extent, currencies. These decreases were partially offset by higher net revenues in mortgages, as 2009 included approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial mortgage-related products.    

 The decline in Equities compared with 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in equities client execution, principally due to significantly lower results in derivatives and shares. Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009, primarily reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition, securities services net revenues were significantly lower compared with 2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities lending spreads, principally due to the impact of changes in the composition of customer balances, partially offset by the impact of higher average customer balances. During 2010, although equity markets were volatile during the first half of the year, equity prices generally improved and volatility levels declined in the second half of the year.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 46  
 2009 versus 2008. Net revenues were $45.17 billion in 2009, more than double the amount in 2008, reflecting significantly improved results in Investing & Lending, as well as significantly higher net revenues in Institutional Client Services. These increases were partially offset by lower net revenues in Investment Management and Investment Banking.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    $900 million on residential mortgage-related products and approximately $600 million on commercial mortgage-related products.    

 Net revenues in Equities for 2009 were lower compared with a particularly strong 2008, reflecting significant decreases in securities services and commissions and fees. The decrease in securities services primarily reflected the impact of lower customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry assets and reduced leverage. The decrease in commissions and fees primarily reflected lower average market levels in Europe and Asia, as well as lower transaction volumes compared with 2008. These decreases were partially offset by strong results in equities client execution, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in derivatives and shares. During 2009, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant increase in global equity prices and a significant decline in volatility levels.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 47  
 One Month Ended December 2008. Net revenues were $183 million for the month of December 2008. These results reflected a continuation of the difficult operating environment experienced during our fiscal fourth quarter of 2008, particularly across global equity and credit markets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Results in Equities reflected lower commission volumes, as well as lower client execution net revenues from derivatives compared with average monthly levels in 2008. Net revenues in securities services were also lower compared with average monthly levels in 2008, reflecting a decline in total average customer balances, partially offset by the impact of favorable changes in the composition of securities lending balances. During the month of December, Equities operated in an environment characterized by continued weakness in global equity markets and continued high levels of volatility.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Interest Income  

 2010 versus 2009. Net revenues for 2010 included net interest income of $5.50 billion, 26% lower than 2009. The decrease compared with 2009 was primarily due to lower average fixed income assets, most notably U.S. federal agency obligations, higher interest expense related to our long-term borrowings and tighter securities lending spreads.  

 2009 versus 2008. Net revenues for 2009 included net interest income of $7.41 billion, 73% higher than 2008. The increase compared with 2008 was primarily due to lower interest expense on our long-term and short-term borrowings, partially offset by tighter spreads on collateralized financing activity, as well as lower average customer margin lending balances and financial instruments owned, at fair value.  

 One Month Ended December 2008. Net revenues included net interest income of $685 million for the month of December 2008. The increase compared with average monthly net interest income in 2008 was primarily due to higher average fixed income assets, most notably U.S. federal agency obligations.  

 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. Compensation and benefits includes salaries, discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits. Discretionary compensation is significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix, the structure of our share-based compensation programs and the external environment.  

 48  
 The table below presents our operating expenses and total staff.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2010 versus 2009. Operating expenses were $26.27 billion for 2010, 4% higher than 2009. Compensation and benefits expenses were $15.38 billion for 2010, a 5% decline compared with $16.19 billion for 2009, due to lower net revenues. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2010 was 39.3% 1 (which excludes the impact of the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax), compared with 35.8% for 2009. Total staff increased 10% during 2010. Total staff including consolidated entities held for investment purposes increased 7% during 2010.   

 During 2010, the United Kingdom enacted legislation that imposed a non-deductible 50% tax on certain financial institutions in respect of discretionary bonuses in excess of £25,000 awarded under arrangements made between December 9, 2009 and April 5, 2010 to “relevant banking employees.” Our operating expenses for 2010 included $465 million related to this tax.  

  1.   We believe that presenting our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues excluding the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax is meaningful, as excluding this item increases the comparability of period-to-period results.    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 49  
 Non-compensation expenses were $10.43 billion for 2010, 14% higher than 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to the impact of net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of $682 million, including $550 million related to the SEC settlement (see Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information), and an impairment of our NYSE DMM rights of $305 million, each during 2010. The remainder of the increase compared with 2009 generally reflected higher professional fees, market development expenses and occupancy expenses. These increases were partially offset by the impact of significantly higher real estate impairment charges during 2009 related to our consolidated entities held for investment purposes, as well as higher charitable contributions during 2009. The real estate impairment charges, which were measured based on discounted cash flow analyses, are included in our Investing & Lending segment and reflected weakness in the commercial real estate markets. Charitable contributions were approximately $420 million during 2010, primarily including $25 million to The Goldman Sachs Foundation and $320 million to Goldman Sachs Gives, our donor-advised fund. Compensation was reduced to fund the charitable contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. The firm asks its participating managing directors to make recommendations regarding potential charitable recipients for this contribution.  

 2009 versus 2008. Operating expenses were $25.34 billion for 2009, 27% higher than 2008. Compensation and benefits expenses of $16.19 billion were higher compared with 2008, due to higher net revenues. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2009 was 35.8%, down from 48.0% (excluding severance costs of approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) for 2008. Total staff decreased 2% during 2009. Total staff including consolidated entities held for investment purposes decreased 5% during 2009.   

 Non-compensation expenses were $9.15 billion for 2009, 2% higher than 2008. The increase compared with 2008 reflected the impact of charitable contributions of approximately $850 million during 2009, primarily including $310 million to The Goldman Sachs Foundation and $500 million to Goldman Sachs Gives. Compensation was reduced to fund the charitable contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. The firm asks its participating managing directors to make recommendations regarding potential charitable recipients for this contribution. Depreciation and amortization expenses also increased compared with 2008 and included real estate impairment charges of approximately $600 million related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes during 2009. The real estate impairment charges, which were measured based on discounted cash flow analyses, are included in our Investing & Lending segment and reflected weakness in the commercial real estate markets, particularly in Asia. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lower brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting lower transaction volumes in Equities, and the impact of reduced staff levels and expense reduction initiatives during 2009.  

 One Month Ended December 2008. Operating expenses were $1.44 billion for the month of December 2008. Compensation and benefits expenses were $744 million. No discretionary compensation was accrued for the month of December. Total staff decreased 3% compared with the end of fiscal year 2008. Total staff including consolidated entities held for investment purposes decreased 3% compared with the end of fiscal year 2008.  

 Non-compensation expenses of $697 million for the month of December 2008 were generally lower than average monthly levels in 2008, primarily reflecting lower levels of business activity. Total non-compensation expenses included $68 million of net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings.    

 50  
 Provision for Taxes  

 The effective income tax rate for 2010, excluding the impact of the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax and the $550 million SEC settlement, substantially all of which is non-deductible, was 32.7% 1, essentially unchanged from 2009. Including the impact of these amounts, the effective income tax rate was 35.2% for 2010.  

 The effective income tax rate for 2009 was 32.5%, compared with approximately 1% for 2008. The increase in the effective income tax rate for 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to changes in the geographic earnings mix and a decrease in permanent benefits as a percentage of higher earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2009 represented a return to a geographic earnings mix that is more in line with our historic earnings mix. During 2008, we incurred losses in various U.S. and   

 non-U.S. entities whose income/(losses) are subject to tax in the U.S. We also had profitable operations in certain non-U.S. entities that are taxed at their applicable local tax rates, which are generally lower than the U.S. rate.  

 The effective income tax rate for the month of December 2008 was 38.0%.  

 Effective January 1, 2010, the rules related to the deferral of U.S. tax on certain non-repatriated active financing income expired. During December 2010, the rules were extended retroactively through December 31, 2011. If these rules are not extended beyond December 2011, the expiration may materially increase our effective income tax rate beginning in 2012.  

  1.   We believe that presenting our effective income tax rate excluding the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax and the SEC settlement, substantially all of which is non-deductible, is meaningful, as excluding these items increases the comparability of period-to-period results. The table below presents the calculation of the effective income tax rate excluding the impact of these amounts.    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 51  
 Segment Operating Results  

 The table below presents the net revenues, operating expenses and pre-tax earnings/(loss) of our segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to our segments: (i) charitable contributions of $345 million and $810 million for the years ended December 2010 and December 2009, respectively; (ii) net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $682 million, $104 million, $(4) million and $68 million for the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and November 2008 and one month ended December 2008, respectively; and (iii) real estate-related exit costs of $28 million, $61 million and $80 million for the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.    

 Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our business segments.   

 The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole — compensation, headcount and levels of business activity — are broadly similar in each of our business segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman Sachs as well as the performance of individual businesses. Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may be significantly affected by the performance of our other business segments. A discussion of segment operating results follows.  

 52  
 Investment Banking  

 Our Investment Banking segment is comprised of:  

 Financial Advisory. Includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, risk management, restructurings and spin-offs.   

 Underwriting. Includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities, loans and other financial instruments, and derivative transactions directly related to these client underwriting activities.  

 The table below presents the operating results of our Investment Banking segment.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The table below presents our financial advisory and underwriting transaction volumes. 1  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2010 versus 2009. Net revenues in Investment Banking were $4.81 billion for 2010, 3% lower than 2009.  

 Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $2.06 billion, 9% higher than 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in client activity. Net revenues in our Underwriting business were $2.75 billion, 11% lower than 2009, reflecting lower net revenues in equity underwriting, principally due to a decline in client activity in comparison to 2009, which included significant capital-raising activity by financial institution clients. Net revenues in debt underwriting were essentially unchanged compared with 2009.   

 Our investment banking transaction backlog decreased compared with the end of 2009. Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. The decrease compared with the end of 2009 reflected a decline in estimated net revenues from potential debt and equity underwriting transactions, primarily related to client mandates to underwrite leveraged finance transactions and common stock offerings. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in estimated net revenues from potential advisory transactions.  

 Operating expenses were $3.51 billion for 2010, essentially unchanged from 2009. Pre-tax earnings were $1.30 billion in 2010, 14% lower than 2009.    

 53  
 2009 versus 2008. Net revenues in Investment Banking were $4.98 billion for 2009, 9% lower than 2008.  

 Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $1.90 billion for 2009, 29% lower than 2008, reflecting a decline in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business were $3.09 billion, 11% higher than 2008, due to higher net revenues in equity underwriting, primarily reflecting an increase in industry-wide equity and equity-related offerings, including significant capital-raising activity by financial institution clients during 2009. Net revenues in debt underwriting were lower than 2008, primarily reflecting significantly lower net revenues from leveraged finance activity, partially offset by significantly higher net revenues from investment-grade and municipal activity.  

 Our investment banking transaction backlog increased significantly during the twelve months ended December 2009. The increase was primarily due to potential equity and debt underwriting transactions from client mandates to underwrite initial public offerings and, to a lesser extent, leveraged finance transactions, principally due to increased levels of client activity. The advisory backlog also increased, but was not a material contributor to the change.  

 Operating expenses were $3.48 billion for 2009, 7% higher than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses. Pre-tax earnings were $1.50 billion in 2009, 31% lower than 2008.   

 One Month Ended December 2008. Net revenues in Investment Banking were $138 million for the month of December 2008. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $73 million, reflecting very low levels of industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions activity. Net revenues in our Underwriting business were $65 million, reflecting continued challenging market conditions across equity and leveraged finance markets.  

 Our investment banking transaction backlog decreased during the one month ended December 2008. The decrease in backlog was primarily due to a decline in potential advisory transactions, principally due to a decline in client activity.  

 Operating expenses were $170 million for the month of December 2008. Pre-tax loss was $32 million for the month of December 2008.  

 Institutional Client Services  

 Our Institutional Client Services segment is comprised of:  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution. Includes client execution activities related to making markets in interest rate products, credit products, mortgages, currencies and commodities.  

 Equities. Includes client execution activities related to making markets in equity products, as well as commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. Equities also includes our securities services business, which provides financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and generates revenues primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees.  

 The table below presents the operating results of our Institutional Client Services segment.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 54  
 2010 versus 2009. Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $21.80 billion for 2010, 33% lower than 2009.  

 Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $13.71 billion for 2010, 37% lower than a particularly strong 2009. During 2010, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging environment characterized by lower client activity levels, which reflected broad market concerns including European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, as well as tighter bid/offer spreads. The decrease in net revenues compared with 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower results in interest rate products, credit products, commodities and, to a lesser extent, currencies. These decreases were partially offset by higher net revenues in mortgages, as 2009 included approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial mortgage-related products.  

 Certain unfavorable conditions emerged during the second quarter of 2010 that made the environment more challenging for our businesses, resulting in lower client activity levels. These conditions included broad market concerns, such as European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty regarding financial regulatory reform, sharply higher equity volatility levels, lower global equity prices and wider corporate credit spreads. In addition, a more competitive environment drove tighter bid/offer spreads. During the second half of 2010, some of these conditions reversed as equity volatility levels decreased, global equity prices recovered and corporate credit spreads narrowed. However, lower client activity levels, reflecting broad market concerns, including European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, continued to negatively impact our results. If these concerns were to continue over the long term, net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution would likely continue to be negatively impacted.  

 Net revenues in Equities were $8.09 billion for 2010, 25% lower than 2009, primarily reflecting significantly lower net revenues in equities client execution, principally due to significantly lower results in derivatives and shares. Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009, primarily reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition, securities services net revenues were significantly lower compared with 2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities lending spreads, principally due to the impact of changes in the composition of customer balances, partially offset by the impact of higher average customer balances. During 2010, although equity markets were volatile during the first half of the year, equity prices generally improved and volatility levels declined in the second half of the year.   

 Operating expenses were $14.29 billion for 2010, 4% higher than 2009, due to the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, as well as an impairment of our NYSE DMM rights of $305 million. These increases were partially offset by lower compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings were $7.51 billion in 2010, 61% lower than 2009.  

 2009 versus 2008. Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $32.72 billion for 2009, 46% higher compared with 2008.  

 Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $21.88 billion for 2009, significantly higher compared with 2008. During 2009, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in an environment characterized by strong client-driven activity, particularly in more liquid products. In addition, asset values generally improved and corporate credit spreads tightened significantly for most of the year. The increase in net revenues compared with 2008 reflected particularly strong performances in credit products, mortgages and interest rate products, which were each significantly higher than 2008. Net revenues in commodities were also particularly strong and were higher than 2008, while net revenues in currencies were strong, but lower than a particularly strong 2008. During 2009, mortgages included approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial mortgage-related products. Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution results in 2008 included a loss of approximately $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities. In addition, results in mortgages in 2008 included net losses of approximately $900 million on residential mortgage-related products and approximately $600 million on commercial mortgage-related products.  

 Net revenues in Equities were $10.84 billion for 2009, 17% lower than a particularly strong 2008, reflecting significant decreases in securities services and commissions and fees. The decrease in securities services primarily reflected the impact of lower customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry assets and reduced leverage. The decrease in commissions and fees primarily reflected lower average market levels in Europe and Asia, as well as lower transaction volumes compared with 2008. These decreases were partially offset by strong results in equities client execution, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in derivatives and shares. During 2009, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant increase in global equity prices and a significant decline in volatility levels.    

 55  
 Operating expenses were $13.69 billion for 2009, 33% higher than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher net revenues. This increase was partially offset by lower brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting lower transaction volumes in Equities. Pre-tax earnings were $19.03 billion in 2009, 58% higher than 2008.  

 One Month Ended December 2008. Institutional Client Services net revenues were $1.33 billion for the month of December 2008.  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution recorded net revenues of $446 million for the month of December 2008. During the month of December, market opportunities were favorable for certain of our Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution product areas, as interest rate products, commodities and currencies each produced strong results. However, the environment for Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution also reflected continued weakness in the broader credit markets, as results in credit products included a loss of approximately $1 billion (net of hedges) related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities, primarily reflecting a writedown of approximately $850 million related to the bridge and bank loan facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company. In addition, results in mortgages included a loss of approximately $400 million on commercial mortgage-related products.   

 Net revenues in Equities were $886 million for the month of December 2008. These results reflected lower commission volumes, as well as lower client execution net revenues from derivatives compared with average monthly levels in 2008. Net revenues in securities services were also lower compared with average monthly levels in 2008, reflecting a decline in total average customer balances, partially offset by the impact of favorable changes in the composition of securities lending balances. During the month of December, Equities operated in an environment characterized by continued weakness in global equity markets and continued high levels of volatility.  

 Operating expenses were $736 million for the month of December 2008. Pre-tax earnings were $596 million for the month of December 2008.  

 Investing & Lending  

 Investing & Lending includes our investing activities and the origination of loans to provide financing to clients. These investments and loans are typically longer-term in nature. We make investments, directly and indirectly through funds that we manage, in debt securities, loans, public and private equity securities, real estate, consolidated investment entities and power generation facilities.  

 The table below presents the operating results of our Investing & Lending segment.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Primarily includes results related to our consolidated entities held for investment purposes.    

 2010 versus 2009. Investing & Lending recorded net revenues of $7.54 billion for 2010. During 2010, an increase in global equity markets and tighter credit spreads provided a favorable backdrop for our Investing & Lending business. Results for 2010 primarily reflected a gain of $747 million from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net gain of $2.69 billion from other equity securities and a net gain of $2.60 billion from debt securities and loans.   

 Operating expenses were $3.36 billion for 2010, 5% lower than 2009, due to the impact of significantly higher real estate impairment charges during 2009 related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, as well as decreased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings were $4.18 billion in 2010, compared with a pre-tax loss of $660 million for 2009.    

 56  
 2009 versus 2008. Investing & Lending recorded net revenues of $2.86 billion for 2009. These results primarily reflected a gain of $1.58 billion from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net gain of $1.05 billion from debt securities and loans and a net loss of $596 million from other equity securities. During 2009, our Investing & Lending results reflected a recovery in global credit and equity markets following significant weakness during 2008. However, continued weakness in commercial real estate markets negatively impacted our results during 2009. In 2008, results in Investing & Lending primarily reflected a loss of $446 million from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net loss of $6.33 billion from debt securities and loans and a net loss of $5.95 billion from other equity securities.  

 Operating expenses were $3.52 billion for 2009, 30% higher than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher net revenues. Pre-tax loss was $660 million in 2009 compared with a pre-tax loss of $13.54 billion in 2008.  

 One Month Ended December 2008. Investing & Lending recorded negative net revenues of $1.63 billion for the month of December 2008. During the month of December, continued weakness in global equity and credit markets negatively impacted results in our Investing & Lending business. Results for December 2008 primarily reflected net losses of $1.08 billion from equity securities (excluding ICBC)   

 and $856 million from debt securities and loans, partially offset by a gain of $228 million from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC.  

 Operating expenses were $204 million for the month of December 2008. Pre-tax loss was $1.83 billion for the month of December 2008.  

 Investment Management  

 Investment Management provides investment management services and offers investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse set of institutional and individual clients. Investment Management also offers wealth advisory services, including portfolio management and financial counseling, and brokerage and other transaction services to high-net-worth individuals and families.  

 Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage of net asset value, which vary by asset class and are affected by investment performance as well as asset inflows and redemptions. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s return or when the return exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when all material contingencies are resolved.  

 57  
 The table below presents the operating results of our Investment Management segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Assets under management include only those client assets where we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This includes assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Assets under management do not include   

 the self-directed assets of our clients, including brokerage accounts, or interest-bearing deposits held through our bank depository institution subsidiaries.  

 The table below presents our assets under management by asset class.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.    

 The table below presents a summary of the changes in our assets under management.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Includes market appreciation of $13 billion and net inflows of $6 billion during the calendar month of December 2008.    

 2010 versus 2009. Net revenues in Investment Management were $5.01 billion for 2010, 9% higher than 2009, primarily reflecting higher incentive fees across our alternative investment products. Management and other fees also increased, reflecting favorable changes in the mix of assets under management, as well as the impact of appreciation in the value of client assets. During 2010, assets under management decreased 4% to $840 billion, primarily   

 reflecting outflows in money market assets, consistent with industry trends.  

 Operating expenses were $4.05 billion for 2010, 10% higher than 2009, primarily reflecting increased staff levels and the impact of growth initiatives. Pre-tax earnings were $963 million in 2010, 3% higher than 2009.    

 58  
 2009 versus 2008. Net revenues in Investment Management were $4.61 billion for 2009, 12% lower than 2008, primarily reflecting the impact of changes in the composition of assets managed, principally due to equity market depreciation during the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as lower incentive fees. During 2009, assets under management increased $73 billion to $871 billion, due to $76 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity assets, partially offset by $3 billion of net outflows. Outflows in money market assets were offset by inflows in fixed income assets.  

 Operating expenses were $3.67 billion for 2009, 4% higher than 2008, due to higher levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings were $934 million in 2009, 46% lower than 2008.  

 One Month Ended December 2008. Net revenues in Investment Management were $343 million for the month of December 2008. During the calendar month of December, assets under management increased $19 billion to $798 billion, due to $13 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity assets, and $6 billion of net inflows. Net inflows reflected inflows in money market assets, partially offset by outflows in fixed income, equity and alternative investment assets.  

 Operating expenses were $263 million for the month of December 2008. Pre-tax earnings were $80 million for the month of December 2008.  

 Geographic Data  

 See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a summary of our total net revenues, pre-tax earnings and net earnings by geographic region.  

 Regulatory Reform  

 On July 21, 2010, the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime under which we operate. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will depend to a large extent on the provisions of required future rulemaking by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the SEC, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other agencies, as well as the development of market practices and structures under the regime established by the legislation and the rules adopted   

 pursuant to it. However, we expect that there will be two principal areas of impact for us:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In addition, the legislation creates a new systemic risk oversight body to oversee and coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns, including more stringent supervisory requirements and prudential standards applicable to systemically important financial institutions. Legal and regulatory changes under consideration in other jurisdictions could also have an impact on our activities in markets outside the United States. See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information.  

 In light of the Dodd-Frank Act, during 2010, we liquidated substantially all of the positions that had been held within Principal Strategies in our former Equities operating segment, as this was a proprietary trading business. In addition, during the first quarter of 2011, we commenced the liquidation of the positions that had been held by the global macro proprietary trading desk in our former Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities operating segment. Net revenues from Principal Strategies and our global macro proprietary trading desk were not material for the year ended December 2010. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory reforms on our businesses, our clients and the markets in which we operate will depend on the manner in which the relevant authorities develop and implement the required rules and the reaction of market participants to these regulatory developments over the next several years. We will continue to assess our business, risk management, and compliance practices to conform to developments in the regulatory environment.    

 59  
 Balance Sheet and Funding Sources   

 Balance Sheet Management  

 One of our most important risk management disciplines is our ability to manage the size and composition of our balance sheet. While our asset base changes due to client activity, market fluctuations and business opportunities, the size and composition of our balance sheet reflect (i) our overall risk tolerance, (ii) our ability to access stable funding sources and (iii) the amount of equity capital we hold.  

 Although our balance sheet fluctuates on a day-to-day basis, our total assets and adjusted assets at quarterly and year-end dates are generally not materially different from those occurring within our reporting periods.  

 In order to ensure appropriate risk management, we seek to maintain a liquid balance sheet and have processes in place to dynamically manage our assets and liabilities which include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Quarterly Planning. We prepare a quarterly balance sheet plan that combines our projected total assets and composition of assets with our expected funding sources and capital levels for the upcoming quarter. The objectives of this quarterly planning process are:  

  •   to develop our near-term balance sheet projections, taking into account the general state of the financial markets and expected client-driven and firm-driven activity levels;   

  •   to ensure that our projected assets are supported by an adequate level and tenor of funding and that our projected capital and liquidity metrics are within management guidelines; and   

  •   to allow business risk managers and managers from our independent control and support functions to objectively evaluate balance sheet limit requests from business managers in the context of the firm’s overall balance sheet constraints. These constraints include the firm’s liability profile and equity capital levels, maturities and plans for new debt and equity issuances, share repurchases, deposit trends and secured funding transactions.     

 To prepare our quarterly balance sheet plan, business risk managers and managers from our independent control and support functions meet with business managers to review current and prior period metrics and discuss expectations for the upcoming quarter. The specific metrics reviewed include asset and liability size and composition, aged inventory, limit utilization, risk and performance measures and capital usage.  

 Our consolidated quarterly plan, including our balance sheet plans by business, funding and capital projections, and projected capital and liquidity metrics, is reviewed by the Finance Committee. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management.”  

 Business-Specific Limits. The Finance Committee sets asset and liability limits for each business and aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments as a disincentive to hold inventory over longer periods of time. These limits are set at levels which are close to actual operating levels in order to ensure prompt escalation and discussion among business managers and managers in our independent control and support functions on a routine basis. The Finance Committee reviews and approves balance sheet limits on a quarterly basis and may also approve changes in limits on an ad hoc basis in response to changing business needs or market conditions.    

 60  
 Monitoring of Key Metrics. We monitor key balance sheet metrics daily both by business and on a consolidated basis, including asset and liability size and composition, aged inventory, limit utilization, risk measures and capital usage. In our consolidated balance sheet, we allocate assets to businesses and review and analyze movements resulting from new business activity as well as market fluctuations.  

 Scenario Analyses. We conduct scenario analyses to determine how we would manage the size and composition of our balance sheet and maintain appropriate funding, liquidity and capital positions in a variety of situations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Balance Sheet Allocation  

 In addition to preparing our consolidated statement of financial condition in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we prepare a balance sheet that generally allocates assets to our businesses. We believe that presenting our assets on this basis is meaningful because it is consistent with the way management views and manages risks associated with the firm’s assets and better enables investors to assess the liquidity of the firm’s assets. The table below presents a summary of this balance sheet allocation.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 61  
 The following is a description of the captions in the table above.  

 Excess Liquidity and Cash. We maintain substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in the event of a stressed environment. See “Liquidity Risk” below for details on the composition and sizing of our excess liquidity pool or “Global Core Excess” (GCE). In addition to our excess liquidity, we maintain other operating cash balances, primarily for use in specific currencies, entities, or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity.  

 Secured Client Financing. We provide collateralized financing for client positions, including margin loans secured by client collateral, securities borrowed, and resale agreements primarily collateralized by government obligations. As a result of client activities, we are required to segregate cash and securities to satisfy regulatory requirements. Our secured client financing arrangements, which are generally short-term, are accounted for at fair value or at amounts that approximate fair value, and include daily margin requirements to mitigate counterparty credit risk.  

 Institutional Client Services. In Institutional Client Services, we maintain inventory positions to facilitate market-making in fixed income, equity, currency and commodity products. Additionally, as part of client market-making activities, we enter into resale or   

 securities borrowing arrangements to obtain securities which we can use to cover transactions in which we or our clients have sold securities that have not yet been purchased. The receivables in Institutional Client Services primarily relate to securities transactions.  

 Investing & Lending. In Investing & Lending, we make investments and originate loans to provide financing to clients. These investments and loans are typically longer-term in nature. We make investments, directly and indirectly through funds that we manage, in debt securities, loans, public and private equity securities, real estate and other investments.  

 Other Assets. Other assets are generally less liquid, non-financial assets, including property, leasehold improvements and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, income tax-related receivables, equity-method investments and miscellaneous receivables.  

 The table below presents the reconciliation of this balance sheet allocation to our U.S. GAAP balance sheet. In the tables below, total assets for Institutional Client Services and Investing & Lending represent the inventory and related assets. These amounts differ from total assets by business segment disclosed in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K because total assets disclosed in Note 27 include allocations of our excess liquidity and other cash, secured client financing and other assets.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Includes unencumbered cash, U.S. government obligations, U.S. agency obligations, highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed obligations, and French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government obligations.    

 62  
 Less Liquid Inventory Composition. We seek to maintain a liquid balance sheet comprised of assets that can be readily funded on a secured basis. However, we do hold certain financial instruments that may be more difficult to fund on a secured basis, especially during times of market stress. We focus on funding these assets with longer contractual maturities to reduce the need to refinance in periods of market stress and generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets than for more liquid types of financial instruments. The table below presents our aggregate holdings in these categories of financial instruments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 See Notes 4 through 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about the financial instruments we hold.   

 Balance Sheet Analysis and Metrics  

 As of December 2010, total assets on our consolidated statement of financial condition were $911.33 billion, an increase of $62.39 billion from December 2009. This increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in collateralized agreements of $20.44 billion and an increase in cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes of $17.07 billion, both primarily due to an increase in client-driven activity, and (ii) an increase in financial instruments owned, at fair value of $14.55 billion, primarily due to increases in physical commodities and U.S. government and federal agency obligations.  

 As of December 2010, total liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition were $833.98 billion, an increase of $55.75 billion from December 2009. This increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in securities sold under agreements to repurchase of $33.99 billion, primarily due to an increase in secured funding of our financial instruments owned, at fair value, and an increase in client-driven activity, (ii) an increase in other secured financings of $14.24 billion, primarily due to client-driven activity and (iii) an increase in financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value of $11.70 billion, primarily due to increases in non-U.S. government obligations and equities and convertible debentures.  

 As of December 2010, our total securities sold under agreements to repurchase, accounted for as collateralized financings, were $162.35 billion, which was 2% higher and 10% higher than the daily average amount of repurchase agreements during the quarter ended and year ended December 2010, respectively. As of December 2010, the increase in our repurchase agreements relative to the daily average during the quarter and year was due to an increase in client-driven activity at the end of the year and an increase in firm financing activities. As of December 2009 our total securities sold under agreements to repurchase, accounted for as collateralized financings, were $128.36 billion, which was 2% lower and 8% lower than the daily average amount of repurchase agreements during the quarter ended and year ended December 2009, respectively. The level of our repurchase agreements fluctuates between and within periods, primarily due to providing clients with access to highly liquid collateral, such as U.S. government, federal agency and investment-grade sovereign obligations through collateralized financing activities.    

 63  
 The table below presents information on our assets, shareholders’ equity and leverage ratios.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Adjusted assets. Adjusted assets equals total assets less (i) low-risk collateralized assets generally associated with our secured client financing transactions and federal funds sold and (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and other purposes.  

 The table below presents the reconciliation of total assets to adjusted assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Leverage ratio. The leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total shareholders’ equity and measures the proportion of equity and debt the firm is using to finance assets. This ratio is different from the Tier 1 leverage ratio included in “Equity Capital — Consolidated Regulatory Capital Ratios” below, and further described in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

 Adjusted leverage ratio. The adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by total shareholders’ equity. We believe that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes certain low-risk collateralized assets that are generally supported with little or no capital.   

 Our adjusted leverage ratio decreased to 7.6x as of December 2010 from 7.8x as of December 2009 primarily because our total shareholders’ equity grew at a higher rate than our adjusted assets. Although total assets increased by 7% during the period, this growth was principally comprised of increases in low-risk assets (primarily securities purchased under agreements to resell and cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes), which do not impact our adjusted assets.  

 Debt to equity ratio. The debt to equity ratio equals unsecured long-term borrowings divided by total shareholders’ equity.  

 Funding Sources  

 Our primary sources of funding are secured financings, unsecured long-term and short-term borrowings, and deposits. We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources globally.  

 We raise funding through a number of different products, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We generally distribute our funding sources through our own sales force to a large, diverse creditor base in a variety of markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds and individuals. We have imposed various internal guidelines to monitor creditor concentration across our primary funding programs.    

 64  
 Secured Funding. We fund a significant amount of our inventory on a secured basis. We believe secured funding is more stable than unsecured financing because it is less sensitive to changes in our credit quality due to the nature of the collateral we post to our lenders. However, because the terms or availability of secured funding, particularly short-dated funding, can deteriorate rapidly in a difficult environment, we generally do not rely on short-dated secured funding unless it is collateralized with highly liquid securities such as government obligations.  

 Substantially all of our other secured funding is executed for tenors of one month or greater. Additionally, we monitor counterparty concentration and hold a portion of our GCE for refinancing risk associated with all secured funding transactions. We seek longer terms for secured funding collateralized by lower-quality assets because these funding transactions may pose greater refinancing risk.   

 The weighted average maturity of our secured funding, excluding funding collateralized by highly liquid securities eligible for inclusion in our GCE, exceeded 100 days as of December 2010.  

 A majority of our secured funding for securities not eligible for inclusion in the GCE is executed through term repurchase agreements and securities lending contracts. We also raise financing through other types of collateralized financings, such as secured loans and notes.  

 Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings. We issue unsecured long-term borrowings as a source of capital to meet our long-term financing requirements and to finance a portion of our GCE. We issue in different tenors, currencies, and products to maximize the diversification of our investor base. The table below presents our quarterly unsecured long-term borrowings maturity profile through 2016 as of December 2010.  

 Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings Maturity Profile  

 ($ in millions)   

 65  
 The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term borrowings as of December 2010 was approximately seven years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any week or year. We enter into interest rate swaps to convert a substantial portion of our long-term borrowings into floating-rate obligations in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates.  

 Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 2010, we had $19.01 billion of senior unsecured debt outstanding (comprised of $10.43 billion of short-term and $8.58 billion of long-term) guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP, all of which will mature on or prior to June 15, 2012. We have not issued long-term debt under the TLGP since March 2009 and the program has expired for new issuances.  

 Unsecured Short-Term Borrowings. A significant portion of our short-term borrowings were originally long-term debt that is scheduled to mature within one year of the reporting date. We use short-term borrowings to finance liquid assets and for other cash management purposes. We primarily issue commercial paper, promissory notes, and other hybrid instruments. We prefer issuing promissory notes, in which we do not make a market, over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity through the ordinary course of business as a market maker.  

 As of December 2010, our unsecured short-term borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured long-term borrowings, were $47.84 billion. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our unsecured short-term borrowings.  

 Deposits. As of December 2010, our bank depository institution subsidiaries had $38.57 billion in customer deposits, including $8.50 billion of certificates of deposit and other time deposits with a weighted average maturity of three years, and $30.07 billion of other deposits, substantially all of which were from cash sweep programs. We utilize deposits to finance lending activities in our bank subsidiaries and to support potential outflows, such as lending commitments.   

 Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA) has access to funding through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window. While we do not rely on this funding in our liquidity planning and stress testing, we maintain policies and procedures necessary to access this funding and test discount window borrowing procedures.   

 Equity Capital   

 The level and composition of our equity capital are determined by multiple factors including our consolidated regulatory capital requirements and ICAAP, and may also be influenced by other factors such as rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our business and market environments. In addition, we maintain a contingency capital plan which provides a framework for analyzing and responding to an actual or perceived capital shortfall.  

 Our consolidated regulatory capital requirements are determined by the Federal Reserve Board, as described below. Our ICAAP incorporates an internal risk-based capital assessment designed to identify and measure material risks associated with our business activities, including market risk, credit risk and operational risk, in a manner that is closely aligned with our risk management practices. Our internal risk-based capital assessment is supplemented with the results of stress tests.  

 As of December 2010, our total shareholders’ equity was $77.36 billion (consisting of common shareholders’ equity of $70.40 billion and preferred stock of $6.96 billion). As of December 2009, our total shareholders’ equity was $70.71 billion (consisting of common shareholders’ equity of $63.76 billion and preferred stock of $6.96 billion). In addition to total shareholders’ equity, we consider our $5.00 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to be part of our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and certain rating agency purposes. See “— Consolidated Regulatory Capital Ratios” below for information regarding the impact of regulatory developments.    

 66  
 Consolidated Regulatory Capital  

 The Federal Reserve Board is the primary regulator of Group Inc., a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements that are computed in accordance with the Federal Reserve Board’s capital adequacy regulations currently applicable to bank holding companies (Basel 1). These capital requirements, which are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), are expressed as capital ratios that compare measures of capital to risk-weighted assets (RWAs). See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the firm’s RWAs. The firm’s capital levels are also subject to qualitative judgments by its regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.  

 Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4% and a minimum total capital ratio of 8%. The required minimum Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio in order to be considered a “well-capitalized” bank holding company under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines are 6% and 10%, respectively. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.   

 Consolidated Regulatory Capital Ratios  

 The table below presents information about our regulatory capital ratios.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our Tier 1 capital ratio increased to 16.0% as of December 2010 from 15.0% as of December 2009. The growth in our Tier 1 capital during the year ended December 2010 was principally due to an increase in our shareholders’ equity, which was partially offset by an increase in our RWAs. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio increased to 8.0% as of December 2010 from 7.6% as of December 2009, reflecting an increase in our Tier 1 capital, principally due to an increase in our shareholders’ equity, which was partially offset by an increase in average adjusted total assets.    

 67  
 We are currently working to implement the requirements set out in the Federal Reserve Board’s Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches, which are based on the advanced approaches under the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee as applicable to us as a bank holding company (Basel 2). U.S. banking regulators have incorporated the Basel 2 framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements by requiring that internationally active banking organizations, such as us, transition to Basel 2 following the successful completion of a parallel run.  

 In addition, the Basel Committee has undertaken a program of substantial revisions to its capital guidelines. In particular, the changes in the “Basel 2.5” guidelines will result in increased capital requirements for market risk; additionally, the Basel 3 guidelines issued by the Basel Committee in December 2010 revise the definition of Tier 1 capital, introduce Tier 1 common equity as a regulatory metric, set new minimum capital ratios (including a new “capital conservation buffer,” which must be composed exclusively of Tier 1 common equity and will be in addition to the other capital ratios), introduce a Tier 1 leverage ratio within international guidelines for the first time, and make substantial revisions to the computation of RWAs for credit exposures. Implementation of the new requirements is expected to take place over an extended transition period, starting at the end of 2011 (for Basel 2.5) and end of 2012 (for Basel 3). Although the U.S. federal banking agencies have now issued proposed rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of the Basel 2.5 guidelines, they have not yet addressed all aspects of those guidelines or the Basel 3 changes. In addition, both the Basel Committee and U.S. banking regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have indicated that they will impose more stringent capital standards on systemically important financial institutions. Although the criteria for treatment as a systemically important financial institution have not yet been determined, it is probable that they will apply to us. Therefore, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from those that have been published to date.   

 The Dodd-Frank Act will subject us at a firmwide level to the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to depository institutions and directs banking regulators to impose additional capital requirements as disclosed above. The Federal Reserve Board will be required to begin implementing the new leverage and risk-based capital regulation by January 2012. As a consequence of these changes, Tier 1 capital treatment for our junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and our cumulative preferred stock will be phased out over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2013. The interaction between the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee’s proposed changes adds further uncertainty to our future capital requirements.  

 A number of other governmental entities and regulators, including the U.S. Treasury, the European Union and the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, have also proposed or announced changes which will result in increased capital requirements for financial institutions.  

 As a consequence of these developments, we expect minimum capital ratios required to be maintained under Federal Reserve Board regulations will be increased and changes in the prescribed calculation methodology are expected to result in higher RWAs and lower capital ratios than those currently computed.  

 See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information about our regulatory capital ratios and the related regulatory requirements.  

 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process  

 We perform an ICAAP with the objective of ensuring that the firm is appropriately capitalized relative to the risks in our business.  

 As part of our ICAAP, we perform an internal risk-based capital assessment. Our internal risk-based capital assessment incorporates market risk, credit risk and operational risk. Market risk is calculated by using Value-at-Risk (VaR) calculations supplemented by risk-based add-ons which include risks related to rare events (tail risks). Credit risk utilizes assumptions about our counterparties’ probability of default, the size of our losses in the event of a default and the maturity of our counterparties’ contractual obligations to us. Operational risk is calculated based on scenarios incorporating multiple types of operational failures. Backtesting is used to gauge the effectiveness of models at capturing and measuring relevant risks.    

 68  
 We evaluate capital adequacy based on the result of our internal risk-based capital assessment, supplemented with the results of stress tests which measure the firm’s performance under various market conditions. Our goal is to hold sufficient capital, under our internal risk-based capital framework, to ensure we remain adequately capitalized after experiencing a severe stress event. Our assessment of capital adequacy is viewed in tandem with our assessment of liquidity adequacy and integrated into the overall risk management structure, governance and policy framework of the firm.  

 We attribute capital usage to each of our businesses based upon our internal risk-based capital and regulatory frameworks and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and risk limits established.  

 Rating Agency Guidelines  

 The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or guarantees substantially all of the firm’s senior unsecured obligations. GS Bank USA has also been assigned long-term issuer ratings as well as ratings on its long-term and short-term bank deposits. In addition, credit rating agencies have assigned ratings to debt obligations of certain other subsidiaries of Group Inc.  

 The level and composition of our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See “Liquidity Risk — Credit Ratings” for further information about our credit ratings.  

 Subsidiary Capital Requirements  

 Many of our subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA and our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. For purposes of assessing the adequacy of its capital, GS Bank USA has established an ICAAP which is similar to that used by Group Inc. GS Bank USA’s capital levels and prompt corrective action classification are subject to qualitative judgments by its regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.   

 We expect that the capital requirements of several of our subsidiaries will be impacted in the future by the various developments arising from the Basel Committee, the Dodd-Frank Act, and other governmental entities and regulators.  

 See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information about GS Bank USA’s capital ratios under Basel 1 as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, and for further information about the capital requirements of our other regulated subsidiaries and the potential impact of regulatory reform.  

 Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulatory capital requirements may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements (for entities with assigned credit ratings) or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its underlying level of risk. In certain instances, Group Inc. may be limited in its ability to access capital held at certain subsidiaries as a result of regulatory, tax or other constraints. As of December 2010 and December 2009, Group Inc.’s equity investment in subsidiaries was $71.30 billion and $65.74 billion, respectively, compared with its total shareholders’ equity of $77.36 billion and $70.71 billion, respectively.  

 Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of GS&Co., GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC and GSEC subject to certain exceptions. In November 2008, we contributed subsidiaries into GS Bank USA, and Group Inc. agreed to guarantee certain losses, including credit-related losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in subsidiaries and other illiquid assets.  

 Our capital invested in non-U.S. subsidiaries is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all of which is managed through a combination of derivatives and non-U.S. denominated debt.    

 69  
 Preferred Stock. In October 2008, we issued to Berkshire Hathaway and certain affiliates 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (Series G Preferred Stock), and a five-year warrant to purchase up to 43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $115.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $5.00 billion. The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the Series G Preferred Stock (based on their relative fair values on the date of issuance) were $1.14 billion and $3.86 billion, respectively. The Series G Preferred Stock is redeemable at the firm’s option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption value of $5.50 billion, plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Accordingly, upon a redemption in full at any time in the future of the Series G Preferred Stock, we would recognize a one-time preferred dividend of $1.64 billion (calculated as the difference between the carrying value and redemption value of the preferred stock), which would be recorded as a reduction to our earnings applicable to common shareholders and to our common shareholders’ equity in the period of redemption. Based on our December 2010 average diluted common shares outstanding and basic shares outstanding, the estimated impact to earnings per common share and book value per common share would be a reduction of approximately $2.80 and $3.00, respectively, in the period in which the redemption occurs in the future.  

 Contingency Capital Plan  

 Our contingency capital plan outlines the appropriate communication procedures to follow during a crisis period, including internal dissemination of information as well as ensuring timely communication with external stakeholders. It also provides a framework for analyzing and responding to a perceived or actual capital deficiency, including, but not limited to, identification of drivers of a capital deficiency, as well as mitigants and potential actions.  

 Equity Capital Management  

 Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal composition of equity capital. We principally manage our capital through issuances and repurchases of our common stock. We may also, from time to time, issue or repurchase our preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt as business conditions warrant and subject to any regulatory approvals. We manage our capital requirements principally by setting limits on balance sheet assets and/or limits on risk, in each case both at the consolidated and business levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our businesses based upon our internal risk-based capital and regulatory frameworks   

 and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and risk limits established.  

 Share Repurchase Program. We seek to use our share repurchase program to substantially offset increases in share count over time resulting from employee share-based compensation and to help maintain the appropriate level of common equity. The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular open-market purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined primarily by our issuance of shares resulting from employee share-based compensation as well as our current and projected capital position (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our actual level of capital), but which may also be influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common stock.  

 As of December 2010, under the Board’s existing share repurchase program, we can repurchase up to 35.6 million additional shares of common stock; however, any such repurchases are subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5 and Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on our repurchase program.  

 See Notes 16 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt.  

 Other Capital Metrics  

 The table below presents information on our shareholders’ equity and book value per common share.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 70  
 Tangible common shareholders’ equity. Tangible common shareholders’ equity equals total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Tangible book value per common share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders’ equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units (RSUs) granted to employees with no future service requirements. We believe that tangible common shareholders’ equity and tangible book value per common share are meaningful because they are measures that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy.  

 The table below presents the reconciliation of total shareholders’ equity to tangible common shareholders’ equity.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Book value and tangible book value per common share. Book value and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including RSUs granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 546.9 million and 542.7 million as of December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.   

 Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

 and Contractual Obligations   

 Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements  

 We have various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, including securitizations. The securitization vehicles that purchase mortgages, corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities markets, since they offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process.  

 We also enter into these arrangements to underwrite client securitization transactions; provide secondary market liquidity; make investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets; provide investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged notes; and receive or provide letters of credit to satisfy margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and settlement process.  

 Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments, except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.  

 When we transfer a security that has very little, if any, default risk under an agreement to repurchase the security where the maturity date of the repurchase agreement matches the maturity date of the underlying security (such that we effectively no longer have a repurchase obligation) and we have relinquished control over the underlying security, we record such transactions as sales. These transactions are referred to as “repos to maturity.” We had no such transactions outstanding as of December 2010 or December 2009.    

 71  
 The table below presents where a discussion of our various off-balance-sheet arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K. In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in   

 Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of our consolidation policies and recent accounting developments that affected these policies effective January 1, 2010.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 72  
 Contractual Obligations  

 We have certain contractual obligations which require us to make future cash payments. These contractual obligations include our unsecured long-term borrowings, secured long-term financings, time deposits, contractual interest payments and insurance agreements, all of which are included in our consolidated statement of financial condition. Our obligations to make future cash payments also   

 include certain off-balance-sheet contractual obligations such as purchase obligations, minimum rental payments under noncancelable leases and commitments and guarantees.  

 The table below presents our contractual obligations, commitments and guarantees as of December 2010.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 73  
 In the table above:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 See Notes 15 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our short-term borrowings, and commitments and guarantees.  

 As of December 2010, our unsecured long-term borrowings were $174.40 billion, with maturities extending to 2060, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our unsecured long-term borrowings.  

 As of December 2010, our future minimum rental payments net of minimum sublease rentals under noncancelable leases were $3.39 billion. These lease commitments, principally for office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our leases.  

 Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our current and future space capacity in relation to current and projected staffing levels. For the year ended December 2010, total occupancy expenses for space   

 held in excess of our current requirements were $130 million, which includes costs related to the transition to our new headquarters in New York City. In addition, in 2010, we incurred exit costs of $28 million, related to our office space (included in “Occupancy” and “Depreciation and amortization” in the consolidated statements of earnings). We may incur exit costs in the future to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a given period.  

 Overview and Structure of Risk Management   

 Overview  

 We believe that effective risk management is of primary importance to the success of the firm. Accordingly, we have comprehensive risk management processes through which we monitor, evaluate and manage the risks we assume in conducting our activities. These include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risk exposures. Our risk management framework is built around three core components: governance, processes and people.  

 Governance. Risk management governance starts with our Board, which plays an important role in reviewing and approving risk management policies and practices, both directly and through its Risk Committee, which consists of all of our independent directors. The Board also receives periodic updates on firmwide risks from our independent control and support functions. Next, at the most senior levels of the firm, our leaders are experienced risk managers, with a sophisticated and detailed understanding of the risks we take. Our senior managers lead and participate in risk-oriented committees, as do the leaders of our independent control and support functions — including those in internal audit, compliance, controllers, credit risk management, human capital management, legal, market risk management, operations, operational risk management, tax, technology and treasury.  

 The firm’s governance structure provides the protocol and responsibility for decision-making on risk management issues and ensures implementation of those decisions. We make extensive use of risk-related committees that meet regularly and serve as an important means to facilitate and foster ongoing discussions to identify, manage and mitigate risks.    

 74  
 We maintain strong communication about risk and we have a culture of collaboration in decision-making among the revenue-producing units, independent control and support functions, committees and senior management. While we believe that the first line of defense in managing risk rests with the managers in our revenue-producing units, we dedicate extensive resources to independent control and support functions in order to ensure a strong oversight structure and an appropriate segregation of duties.  

 Processes. We maintain various processes and procedures that are critical components of our risk management. First and foremost is our daily discipline of marking substantially all of the firm’s inventory to current market levels. Goldman Sachs carries its inventory at fair value, with changes in valuation reflected immediately in our risk management systems and in net revenues. We do so because we believe this discipline is one of the most effective tools for assessing and managing risk and that it provides transparent and realistic insight into our financial exposures.  

 We also apply a rigorous framework of limits to control risk across multiple transactions, products, businesses and markets. This includes setting credit and market risk limits at a variety of levels and monitoring these limits on a daily basis. Limits are typically set at levels that will be periodically exceeded, rather than at levels which reflect our maximum risk appetite. This fosters an ongoing dialogue on risk among revenue-producing units, independent control and support functions, committees and senior management, as well as rapid escalation of risk-related matters. See “Market Risk Management” and “Credit Risk Management” for further information on our risk limits.  

 Active management of our positions is another important process. Proactive mitigation of our market and credit exposures minimizes the risk that we will be required to take outsized actions during periods of stress.  

 We also focus on the rigor and effectiveness of the firm’s risk systems. The goal of our risk management technology is to get the right information to the right people at the right time, which requires systems that are comprehensive, reliable and timely. We devote significant time and resources to our risk management technology to ensure that it consistently provides us with complete, accurate and timely information.   

 People. Even the best technology serves only as a tool for helping to make informed decisions in real time about the risks we are taking. Ultimately, effective risk management requires our people to make ongoing portfolio interpretations and adjustments. In both our revenue-producing units and our independent control and support functions, the experience of our professionals, and their understanding of the nuances and limitations of each risk measure, guide the firm in assessing exposures and maintaining them within prudent levels.  

 Structure  

 Ultimate oversight of risk is the responsibility of the firm’s Board. The Board oversees risk both directly and through its Risk Committee. Within the firm, a series of committees with specific risk management mandates have oversight or decision-making responsibilities for risk management activities. Committee membership generally consists of senior managers from both our revenue-producing units and our independent control and support functions. We have established procedures for these committees to ensure that appropriate information barriers are in place. Our primary risk committees, most of which also have additional sub-committees or working groups, are described below. In addition to these committees, we have other risk-oriented committees which provide oversight for different businesses, activities, products, regions and legal entities.  

 Membership of the firm’s risk committees is reviewed regularly and updated to reflect changes in the responsibilities of the committee members. Accordingly, the length of time that members serve on the respective committees varies as determined by the relevant committee charter or the committee chairs, and based on the responsibilities of the members within the firm.  

 In addition, independent control and support functions, which report to the chief financial officer, general counsels, chief administrative officer, or in the case of Internal Audit, to the Audit Committee of the Board, are responsible for day-to-day oversight of risk, as discussed in greater detail in the following sections.    

 75  
 The chart below presents an overview of our risk management governance structure, highlighting the oversight of our Board, our key risk-related

 committees and the independence of our control and support functions.

 Management Committee. The Management Committee oversees the global activities of the firm, including all of the firm’s independent control and support functions. It provides this oversight directly and through authority delegated to committees it has established. This committee is comprised of the most senior leaders of the firm, and is chaired by the firm’s chief executive officer. The Management Committee has established various committees with delegated authority and appoints the chairpersons of these committees (the chairpersons then appoint the other members of the committees). All of these committees (and other committees established by such committees) report, directly or indirectly, to the Management Committee. Most members of the Management Committee are also members of other firmwide, divisional and regional committees. The following are the committees established by the Management Committee that are principally involved in firmwide risk management.   

 Firmwide Client and Business Standards Committee. The Firmwide Client and Business Standards Committee assesses and makes determinations regarding business standards and practices, reputational risk management, client relationships and client service, and is chaired by the firm’s president and chief operating officer. This committee also has responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the recommendations of the Business Standards Committee. This committee has established the following two committees that report to it and is responsible for appointing the chairpersons of these committees and other committee members:  

  •   Firmwide New Activity Committee. The Firmwide New Activity Committee is responsible for reviewing new activities and establishing a process to identify and review previously approved activities that are significant and that have changed in complexity and/or structure or present different reputational and suitability concerns over time to consider whether these activities remain appropriate. This committee is co-chaired by the firm’s head of operations and the chief administrative officer of our Investment Management Division.      

 76  
  •   Firmwide Suitability Committee. The Firmwide Suitability Committee is responsible for setting standards and policies for product, transaction and client suitability and providing a forum for consistency across divisions, regions and products on suitability assessments. This committee also reviews suitability matters escalated from other firm committees. This committee is co-chaired by the firm’s international general counsel and the chief operating officer of our Investment Management Division.    

 Firmwide Risk Committee. The Firmwide Risk Committee is responsible for the ongoing monitoring and control of the firm’s global financial risks. Through both direct and delegated authority, the Firmwide Risk Committee approves firmwide, product, divisional and business-level limits for both market and credit risks, approves sovereign credit risk limits and reviews results of stress tests and scenario analyses. This committee is co-chaired by the firm’s chief financial officer and a senior managing director from the firm’s executive office. The Firmwide Risk Committee has established the Securities Division Risk Committee, the Credit Policy Committee and the Operational Risk Committee and the Management Committee established the Firmwide Finance Committee. All four of these committees report to the Firmwide Risk Committee, which is responsible for appointing the chairperson of the four committees, who then appoints the other committee members:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   Finance Committee. The Finance Committee has oversight of firmwide liquidity, the size and composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and our credit ratings. This committee regularly reviews our liquidity, balance sheet, funding position and capitalization, and makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and exposures, and regulatory requirements. This committee is also responsible for reviewing and approving balance sheet limits and the size of our GCE. This committee is co-chaired by the firm’s chief financial officer and the firm’s global treasurer.    

 The following committees report jointly to the Firmwide Risk Committee and the Firmwide Client and Business Standards Committee, which also appoint the chairpersons of these committees (who then appoint the members of the committees).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Investment Management Division Risk Committee. The Investment Management Division Risk Committee is responsible for the ongoing monitoring and control of global market, counterparty credit and liquidity risks associated with the activities of our investment management businesses. The head of Investment Management Division risk management is the chair of this committee and appoints the other members.  

 77  
 Liquidity Risk   

 Liquidity is of critical importance to financial institutions. Most of the recent failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity. Accordingly, the firm has in place a comprehensive and conservative set of liquidity and funding policies to address both firm-specific and broader industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is to be able to fund the firm and to enable our core businesses to continue to generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances.  

 We manage liquidity risk according to the following principles:  

 Excess Liquidity. We maintain substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in a stressed environment.  

 Asset-Liability Management. We assess anticipated holding periods for our assets and their potential illiquidity in a stressed environment. We manage the maturities and diversity of our funding across markets, products and counterparties; and seek to maintain liabilities of appropriate tenor relative to our asset base.  

 Contingency Funding Plan. We maintain a contingency funding plan to provide a framework for analyzing and responding to a liquidity crisis situation or periods of market stress. This framework sets forth the plan of action to fund normal business activity in emergency and stress situations. These principles are discussed in more detail below.  

 Excess Liquidity  

 Our most important liquidity policy is to pre-fund our estimated potential cash needs during a liquidity crisis and hold this excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities and cash instruments. We believe that this global core excess would be readily convertible to cash in a matter of days, through liquidation, by entering into repurchase agreements or from maturities of reverse repurchase agreements, and that this cash would allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other   

 assets or depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets.  

 As of December 2010 and December 2009, the fair value of the securities and certain overnight cash deposits included in our GCE totaled $174.78 billion and $170.69 billion, respectively. Based on the results of our internal liquidity risk model, discussed below, as well as our consideration of other factors including but not limited to a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets and the firm, we believe our liquidity position as of December 2010 was appropriate.  

 Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2010, our GCE, which was previously reported at loan value, is now reported at fair value. The differences between the loan value and fair value were not material and prior periods are presented on a comparable basis.  

 The table below presents the fair value of the securities and certain overnight cash deposits that are included in our GCE.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The U.S. dollar-denominated excess is composed of unencumbered U.S. government obligations, U.S. agency obligations and highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed obligations, all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal Reserve open market operations and certain overnight U.S. dollar cash deposits. The non-U.S. dollar-denominated excess is composed of only unencumbered French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government obligations and certain overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies. We strictly limit our excess liquidity to this narrowly defined list of securities and cash because they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not include other potential sources of excess liquidity, such as lower-quality unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities, in our GCE.  

 78  
 The table below presents the fair value of our GCE by asset class.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The GCE is held at Group Inc. and our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, as presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our GCE reflects the following principles:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 We believe that our GCE provides us with a resilient source of funds that would be available in advance of potential cash and collateral outflows and gives us significant flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment.  

 In order to determine the appropriate size of our GCE, we use an internal liquidity model, referred to as the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, which captures and quantifies the firm’s liquidity risks. We also consider other factors including but not limited to a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets and the firm.  

 We distribute our GCE across subsidiaries, asset types, and clearing agents to provide us with sufficient operating liquidity to ensure timely settlement in all major markets, even in a difficult funding environment.  

 We maintain our GCE to enable us to meet current and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries. The Modeled Liquidity Outflow incorporates a consolidated requirement as well as a standalone requirement for each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries. Liquidity held directly in each of these subsidiaries is intended for use only by that subsidiary to meet its liquidity requirements and is assumed not to be available to Group Inc. unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. We hold a portion of our GCE directly at Group Inc. to support consolidated requirements not accounted for in the major subsidiaries. In addition to the GCE held at our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, we maintain operating cash balances in several of our other operating entities, primarily for use in specific currencies, entities, or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity.  

 In addition to our GCE, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered cash and financial instruments, including other government obligations, high-grade money market securities, corporate obligations, marginable equities, loans and cash deposits not included in our GCE. The fair value of these assets averaged $72.98 billion and $71.82 billion for the years ended December 2010 and December 2009, respectively. We do not consider these assets liquid enough to be eligible for our GCE liquidity pool and therefore conservatively do not assume we will generate liquidity from these assets in a short-term stress scenario.    

 79  
 Modeled Liquidity Outflow. Our Modeled Liquidity Outflow is based on a scenario that includes both a market-wide stress and a firm-specific stress, characterized by some or all of the following elements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following are the critical modeling parameters of the Modeled Liquidity Outflow:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Modeled Liquidity Outflow is calculated and reported to senior management on a daily basis. We regularly refine our model to reflect changes in market or economic conditions and the firm’s business mix.  

 The potential contractual and contingent cash and collateral outflows covered in our Modeled Liquidity Outflow include:  

 Unsecured Funding  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Deposits  

  •   Contractual: All upcoming maturities of term deposits. We assume that we will be unable to raise new term deposits or rollover any maturing term deposits.   

  •   Contingent: Withdrawals of bank deposits that have no contractual maturity. The withdrawal assumptions reflect, among other factors, the type of deposit, whether the deposit is insured or uninsured, and the firm’s relationship with the depositor.    

 Secured Funding  

  •   Contractual: A portion of upcoming contractual maturities of secured funding trades due to either the inability to refinance or the ability to refinance only at wider haircuts (i.e., on terms which require us to post additional collateral). Our assumptions reflect, among other factors, the quality of the underlying collateral and counterparty concentration.   

  •   Contingent: A decline in value of financial assets pledged as collateral for financing transactions, which would necessitate additional collateral postings under those transactions.    

 OTC Derivatives  

  •   Contingent: Collateral postings to counterparties due to adverse changes in the value of our OTC derivatives.   

  •   Contingent: Other outflows of cash or collateral related to OTC derivatives, including the impact of trade terminations, collateral substitutions, collateral disputes, collateral calls or termination payments required by a two-notch downgrade in our credit ratings, and collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them.    

 Exchange-Traded Derivatives  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Customer Cash and Securities  

  •   Contingent: Liquidity outflows associated with our prime brokerage business, including withdrawals of customer credit balances, and a reduction in customer short positions, which serve as a funding source for long positions.      

 80  
 Unfunded Commitments  

  •   Contingent: Draws on our unfunded commitments. Draw assumptions reflect, among other things, the type of commitment and counterparty.    

 Other  

  •   Other upcoming large cash outflows, such as tax payments.    

 Asset-Liability Management  

 Our liquidity risk management policies are designed to ensure we have a sufficient amount of financing, even when funding markets experience persistent stress. We seek to maintain a long-dated and diversified funding profile, taking into consideration the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.  

 Our approach to asset-liability management includes:  

  •   Conservatively managing the overall characteristics of our funding book, with a focus on maintaining long-term, diversified sources of funding in excess of our current requirements. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Funding Sources” for additional details.   

  •   Actively managing and monitoring our asset base, with particular focus on the liquidity, holding period and our ability to fund assets on a secured basis. This enables us to determine the most appropriate funding products and tenors. Less liquid assets are more difficult to fund and therefore require funding that has longer tenors with a greater proportion of unsecured debt. For more detail on our balance sheet management process, please see “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Balance Sheet Management.”   

  •   Raising secured and unsecured financing that has a sufficiently longer term than the anticipated holding period of our assets. This reduces the risk that our liabilities will come due in advance of our ability to generate liquidity from the sale of our assets. Because we maintain a highly liquid balance sheet, the holding period of certain of our assets may be materially shorter than their contractual maturity dates.     

 Our goal is to have sufficient total capital (unsecured long-term borrowings plus total shareholders’ equity) so that we can avoid reliance on asset sales (other than our GCE). However, we recognize that orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis. The target amount of our total capital is based on an internal funding model which incorporates the following long-term financing requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Subsidiary Funding Policies. The majority of our unsecured funding is raised by Group Inc. which lends the necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing, liquidity and capital requirements. In addition, Group Inc. provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding are enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary level through a variety of products, including secured funding, unsecured borrowings and deposits.  

 Our intercompany funding policies assume that, unless legally provided for, a subsidiary’s funds or securities are not freely available to its parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on its obligations. Accordingly, we assume that the capital provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or other subsidiaries and any other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available until the maturity of such financing.    

 81  
 Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2010, Group Inc. had $30.80 billion of equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in GS&Co., its principal U.S. registered broker-dealer; $22.67 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.72 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered broker-dealer; $3.43 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a regulated Japanese broker-dealer; and $23.80 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New York State-chartered bank. Group Inc. also had $81.93 billion of unsubordinated loans and $12.62 billion of collateral provided to these entities as of December 2010 and significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.  

 Contingency Funding Plan  

 The Goldman Sachs contingency funding plan sets out the plan of action we would use to fund business activity in crisis situations and periods of market stress. The contingency funding plan outlines a list of potential risk factors, key reports and metrics that are reviewed on an ongoing basis to assist in assessing the severity of, and managing through, a liquidity crisis and/or market   

 dislocation. The contingency funding plan also describes in detail the firm’s potential responses if our assessments indicate that the firm has entered a liquidity crisis, which include pre-funding for what we estimate will be our potential cash and collateral needs as well as utilizing secondary sources of liquidity. Mitigants and action items to address specific risks which may arise are also described and assigned to individuals responsible for execution.  

 The contingency funding plan identifies key groups of individuals to foster effective coordination, control and distribution of information, all of which are critical in the management of a crisis or period of market stress. The contingency funding plan also details the responsibilities of these groups and individuals, which include making and disseminating key decisions, coordinating all contingency activities throughout the duration of the crisis or period of market stress, implementing liquidity maintenance activities and managing internal and external communication.  

 Credit Ratings  

 The table below presents our unsecured credit ratings (excluding debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP) and outlook as of December 2010.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 82  
 We rely on the short-term and long-term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations and the cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important when we are competing in certain markets, such as OTC derivatives, and when we seek to engage in longer-term transactions. See “Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses,” and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.  

 We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies’ assessment of:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We allocate a portion of our GCE to ensure we would be able to make the additional collateral or termination payments that may be required in the event of a two-notch reduction in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them. The table below presents the additional collateral or termination payments that could have been called at the reporting date by counterparties in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade in our credit ratings.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s international framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring calls for imposition of a liquidity coverage ratio, designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets based on expected cash outflows under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a net stable funding ratio, designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. The liquidity coverage ratio would be implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011, but would not be introduced as a requirement until January 1, 2015, and the net   

 stable funding ratio would not be introduced as a requirement until January 1, 2018. While the principles behind the new framework are broadly consistent with our current liquidity management framework, it is possible that the implementation of these standards could impact our liquidity and funding requirements and practices.  

 Cash Flows  

 As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets. Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the excess liquidity and asset-liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our businesses.  

 Year Ended December 2010. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $1.50 billion to $39.79 billion at the end of 2010. We generated $7.84 billion in net cash from financing activities primarily from net proceeds from issuances of short-term secured financings. We used net cash of $6.34 billion for operating and investing activities, primarily to fund an increase in securities purchased under agreements to resell and an increase in cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes, partially offset by cash generated from a decrease in securities borrowed.  

 Year Ended December 2009. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $24.49 billion to $38.29 billion at the end of 2009. We generated $48.88 billion in net cash from operating activities. We used net cash of $24.39 billion for investing and financing activities, primarily for net repayments in unsecured and secured short-term borrowings and the repurchases of Series H Preferred Stock and the related common stock warrant from the U.S. Treasury, partially offset by an increase in bank deposits and the issuance of common stock.    

 83  
 Market Risk Management   

 Overview  

 Market risk is the risk of loss in the value of our inventory due to changes in market prices. We hold inventory primarily for market making for our clients and for our investing and lending activities. Our inventory therefore changes based on client demands and our investment opportunities. Our inventory is accounted for at fair value and therefore fluctuates on a daily basis. Categories of market risk include the following:  

  •   Interest rate risk: primarily results from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, the volatilities of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.   

  •   Equity price risk: results from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, baskets of equities and equity indices.   

  •   Currency rate risk: results from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.   

  •   Commodity price risk: results from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and precious and base metals.    

 Market Risk Management Process  

 We manage our market risk by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. This includes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Market Risk Management, which is independent of the revenue-producing units and reports to the firm’s chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing market risk at the firm. We monitor and control risks through strong firmwide oversight and independent control and support functions across the firm’s global businesses.   

 Managers in revenue-producing units are accountable for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of their positions, of markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures.  

 Managers in revenue-producing units and Market Risk Management discuss market information, positions and estimated risk and loss scenarios on an ongoing basis.  

 Risk Measures  

 Market Risk Management produces risk measures and monitors them against market risk limits set by our firm’s risk committees. These measures reflect an extensive range of scenarios and the results are aggregated at trading desk, business and firmwide levels.  

 We use a variety of risk measures to estimate the size of potential losses for both moderate and more extreme market moves over both short-term and long-term time horizons. Risk measures used for shorter-term periods include VaR and sensitivity metrics. For longer-term horizons, our primary risk measures are stress tests. Our risk reports detail key risks, drivers and changes for each desk and business, and are distributed daily to senior management of both our revenue-producing units and our independent control and support functions.  

 Systems  

 We have made a significant investment in technology to monitor market risk including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 84  
 Value-at-Risk  

 VaR is the potential loss in value of inventory positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. We typically employ a one-day time horizon with a 95% confidence level. Thus, we would expect to see reductions in the fair value of inventory positions at least as large as the reported VaR once per month. The VaR model captures risks including interest rates, equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. As such, VaR facilitates comparison across portfolios of different risk characteristics. VaR also captures the diversification of aggregated risk at the firmwide level.  

 Inherent limitations to VaR include:  

  •   VaR does not estimate potential losses over longer time horizons where moves may be extreme.   

  •   VaR does not take account of the relative liquidity of different risk positions.   

  •   Previous moves in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of all future market moves.    

 The historical data used in our VaR calculation is weighted to give greater importance to more recent observations and reflect current asset volatilities. This improves the accuracy of our estimates of potential loss. As a result, even if our inventory positions were unchanged, our VaR would increase with increasing market volatility and vice versa.  

 Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions.  

 We evaluate the accuracy of our VaR model through daily backtesting (i.e., comparing daily trading net revenues to the VaR measure calculated as of the prior business day) at the firmwide level and for each of our businesses and major regulated subsidiaries.  

 VaR does not include:  

  •   positions that are best measured and monitored using sensitivity measures; and   

  •   the impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives as well as changes in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected.     

 Stress Testing  

 We use stress testing to examine risks of specific portfolios as well as the potential impact of significant risk exposures across the firm. We use a variety of scenarios to calculate the potential loss from a wide range of market moves on the firm’s portfolios. These scenarios include the default of single corporate or sovereign entities, the impact of a move in a single risk factor across all positions (e.g., equity prices or credit spreads) or a combination of two or more risk factors.  

 Unlike VaR measures, which have an implied probability because they are calculated at a specified confidence level, there is generally no implied probability that our stress test scenarios will occur. Instead, stress tests are used to model both moderate and more extreme moves in underlying market factors. When estimating potential loss, we generally assume that our positions cannot be reduced or hedged (although experience demonstrates that we are generally able to do so).  

 Stress test scenarios are conducted on a regular basis as part of the firm’s routine risk management process and on an ad hoc basis in response to market events or concerns. Stress testing is an important part of the firm’s risk management process because it allows us to highlight potential loss concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, and assess and mitigate our risk positions.  

 Limits  

 We use risk limits at various levels in the firm (including firmwide, product and business) to govern risk appetite by controlling the size of our exposures to market risk. Limits are reviewed frequently and amended on a permanent or temporary basis to reflect changing market conditions, business conditions or tolerance for risk.  

 The Firmwide Risk Committee sets market risk limits at firmwide and product levels and our Securities Division Risk Committee sets sub-limits for market-making and investing activities at a business level. The purpose of the firmwide limits is to assist senior management in controlling the firm’s overall risk profile. Sub-limits set the desired maximum amount of exposure that may be managed by any particular business on a day-to-day basis without additional levels of senior management approval, effectively leaving day-to-day trading decisions to individual desk managers and traders. Accordingly, sub-limits are a management tool designed to ensure appropriate escalation rather than to establish maximum risk tolerance. Sub-limits also distribute risk among various businesses in a manner that is consistent with their level of activity and client demand, taking into account the relative performance of each area.    

 85  
 Our market risk limits are monitored daily by Market Risk Management, which is responsible for identifying and escalating, on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded. The business-level limits that are set by the Securities Division Risk Committee are subject to the same scrutiny and limit escalation policy as the firmwide limits.  

 When a risk limit has been exceeded (e.g., due to changes in market conditions, such as increased volatilities or changes in correlations), it is reported to the appropriate risk committee and a discussion takes place with the relevant desk managers, after which either the risk position is reduced or the risk limit is temporarily or permanently increased.  

 Metrics  

 We analyze VaR at the firmwide level and a variety of more detailed levels, including by risk category, business, and region. The tables below present average daily VaR and year-end VaR by risk category.  

 Average Daily VaR  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.    

 Our average daily VaR decreased to $134 million in 2010 from $218 million in 2009, principally due to a decrease in the interest rates category which was primarily due to reduced exposures, lower levels of volatility and tighter spreads.  

 Our average daily VaR increased to $218 million in 2009 from $180 million in 2008, principally due to an increase in the interest rates category and a reduction in the diversification benefit across risk categories, partially offset by a decrease in the commodity prices category. The increase in the interest rates category was primarily due to wider spreads. The decrease in the commodity prices category was primarily due to lower energy prices.   

 Year-End VaR and High and Low VaR  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.    

 Our daily VaR decreased to $111 million as of December 2010 from $153 million as of December 2009, principally due to a decrease in the equity prices and interest rates categories, partially offset by a decrease in the diversification benefit across risk categories. The decreases in the equity prices and interest rates categories were primarily due to reduced exposures and lower levels of volatility.  

 During the year ended December 2010, the firmwide VaR risk limit was exceeded on one occasion in order to facilitate a client transaction and was resolved by a reduction in the risk position on the following day. Separately, during the year ended December 2010, the firmwide VaR risk limit was reduced on one occasion reflecting lower risk utilization.  

 During the year ended December 2009, the firmwide VaR risk limit was exceeded on two successive days. It was resolved by a reduction in the risk position without a permanent or temporary VaR limit increase. Separately, during the year ended December 2009, the firmwide VaR risk limit was raised on one occasion and reduced on two occasions as a result of changes in the risk utilization and the market environment.    

 86  
 The chart below reflects the VaR over the last four quarters.  

 The chart below presents the frequency distribution of our daily trading net revenues for substantially all   

 inventory positions included in VaR for the year ended December 2010.  

 As noted above, daily trading net revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day exceeded our 95% one-day VaR on two   

 occasions during 2010. Trading losses incurred on a single day did not exceed our 95% one-day VaR during 2009.

 87  
 Sensitivity Measures  

 As noted above, certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR because VaR is not the most appropriate risk measure. The market risk of these positions is determined by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues of a 10% decline in asset value. The market risk related to our investment   

 in the ordinary shares of ICBC excludes interests held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.  

 The table below presents market risk for positions that are not included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification benefits across asset categories and therefore have not been aggregated.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Relates to private and restricted public equity securities, including interests in firm-sponsored funds that invest in corporate equities and real estate and interests in firm-sponsored hedge funds.   

  2.   Relates to corporate bank debt, loans backed by commercial and residential real estate, and other corporate debt, including acquired portfolios of distressed loans and interests in our firm-sponsored funds that invest in corporate mezzanine and senior debt instruments.    

 As noted above, VaR excludes the impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives as well as changes in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected. The estimated sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in credit spreads (counterparty and our own) on derivatives was a $5 million gain as of December 2010. In addition, the estimated sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was an $8 million gain (including hedges) as of December 2010.  

 In addition to the positions included in VaR and the sensitivity measures described above, as of December 2010, we held $3.67 billion of securities accounted for as available-for-sale, primarily consisting of $1.69 billion of corporate debt securities, the majority of which will mature after five years, with an average yield of 6%, $670 million of mortgage and other asset-backed loans and securities, which will mature after ten years with an average yield of 11%, and $637 million of U.S. government and federal agency obligations, the majority of which will mature after ten years with an average yield of 4%. As of December 2009, we held $3.86 billion of securities accounted for as   

 available-for-sale, primarily consisting of $1.64 billion of corporate debt securities, the majority of which will mature after five years, with an average yield of 6%, $950 million of U.S. government and federal agency obligations, the majority of which will mature after ten years with an average yield of 4%, and $638 million of mortgage and other asset-backed loans and securities, the majority of which will mature after ten years with an average yield of 15%.  

 In addition, as of December 2010, we held money market instruments, commitments and loans under the William Street credit extension program. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about our William Street credit extension program.  

 Additionally, we make investments accounted for under the equity method and we also make direct investments in real estate, both of which are included in “Other assets” in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information on “Other assets.”  

 88  
 Credit Risk Management   

 Overview  

 Credit risk represents the potential for loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty (e.g., an OTC derivatives counterparty or a borrower) or an issuer of securities or other instruments we hold. Our exposure to credit risk comes mostly from client transactions in OTC derivatives and loans and lending commitments. Credit risk also comes from cash placed with banks, securities financing transactions (i.e., resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending activities) and receivables from brokers, dealers, clearing organizations, customers and counterparties.  

 Credit Risk Management, which is independent of the revenue-producing units and reports to the firm’s chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing credit risk at the firm. The Credit Policy Committee and the Firmwide Risk Committee establish and review credit policies and parameters. In addition, we hold other positions that give rise to credit risk (e.g., bonds held in our inventory and secondary bank loans). These credit risks are captured as a component of market risk measures, which are monitored and managed by Market Risk Management, consistent with other inventory positions.  

 Policies authorized by the Firmwide Risk Committee and the Credit Policy Committee prescribe the level of formal approval required for the firm to assume credit exposure to a counterparty across all product areas, taking into account any enforceable netting provisions, collateral or other credit risk mitigants.  

 Credit Risk Management Process  

 Effective management of credit risk requires accurate and timely information, a high level of communication and knowledge of customers, countries, industries and products. Our process for managing credit risk includes:  

  •   approving transactions and setting and communicating credit exposure limits;   

  •   monitoring compliance with established credit exposure limits;   

  •   assessing the likelihood that a counterparty will default on its payment obligations;   

  •   measuring the firm’s current and potential credit exposure and losses resulting from counterparty default;   

  •   reporting of credit exposures to senior management, the Board and regulators;     

  •   use of credit risk mitigants, including collateral and hedging; and   

  •   communication and collaboration with other independent control and support functions such as operations, legal and compliance.    

 As part of the risk assessment process, Credit Risk Management performs credit reviews which include initial and ongoing analyses of our counterparties. A credit review is an independent judgment about the capacity and willingness of a counterparty to meet its financial obligations. For substantially all of our credit exposures, the core of our process is an annual counterparty review. A counterparty review is a written analysis of a counterparty’s business profile and financial strength resulting in an internal credit rating which represents the probability of default on financial obligations to the firm. The determination of internal credit ratings incorporates assumptions with respect to the counterparty’s future business performance, the nature and outlook for the counterparty’s industry, and the economic environment. Senior personnel within Credit Risk Management, with expertise in specific industries, inspect and approve credit reviews and internal credit ratings.  

 Our global credit risk management systems capture credit exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and their subsidiaries (economic groups). These systems also provide management with comprehensive information on our aggregate credit risk by product, internal credit rating, industry, country and region.  

 Risk Measures and Limits  

 We measure our credit risk based on the potential loss in an event of non-payment by a counterparty. For derivatives and securities financing transactions, the primary measure is potential exposure, which is our estimate of the future exposure that could arise over the life of a transaction based on market movements within a specified confidence level. Potential exposure takes into account netting and collateral arrangements. For loans and lending commitments, the primary measure is a function of the notional amount of the position. We also monitor credit risk in terms of current exposure, which is the amount presently owed to the firm after taking into account applicable netting and collateral.    

 89  
 We use credit limits at various levels (counterparty, economic group, industry, country) to control the size of our credit exposures. Limits for counterparties and economic groups are reviewed regularly and revised to reflect changing appetites for a given counterparty or group of counterparties. Limits for industries and countries are based on the firm’s risk tolerance and are designed to allow for regular monitoring, review, escalation and management of credit risk concentrations.  

 Stress Tests/Scenario Analysis  

 We use regular stress tests to calculate the credit exposures, including potential concentrations that would result from applying shocks to counterparty credit ratings or credit risk factors (e.g., currency rates, interest rates, equity prices). These shocks include a wide range of moderate and more extreme market movements. Some of our stress tests include shocks to multiple risk factors, consistent with the occurrence of a severe market or economic event. Unlike potential exposure, which is calculated within a specified confidence level, with a stress test there is generally no assumed probability of these events occurring.  

 We run stress tests on a regular basis as part of our routine risk management processes and conduct tailored stress tests on an ad hoc basis in response to market developments. Stress tests are regularly conducted jointly with the firm’s market and liquidity risk functions.  

 Risk Mitigants  

 To reduce our credit exposures on derivatives and securities financing transactions, we may enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. We may also reduce credit risk with counterparties by entering into agreements that enable us to obtain collateral from them on an upfront or contingent basis and/or to terminate transactions if the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified level.   

 For loans and lending commitments, we typically employ a variety of potential risk mitigants, depending on the credit quality of the borrower and other characteristics of the transaction. Risk mitigants include: collateral provisions, guarantees, covenants, structural seniority of the bank loan claims and, for certain lending commitments, provisions in the legal documentation that allow the firm to adjust loan amounts, pricing, structure and other terms as market conditions change. The type and structure of risk mitigants employed can significantly influence the degree of credit risk involved in a loan.  

 When we do not have sufficient visibility into a counterparty’s financial strength or when we believe a counterparty requires support from its parent company, we may obtain third-party guarantees of the counterparty’s obligations. We may also mitigate our credit risk using credit derivatives or participation agreements.  

 Credit Exposures  

 The firm’s credit exposures are described further below.  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include both interest-bearing and non-interest bearing deposits. To mitigate the risk of credit loss, we place substantially all of our deposits with highly rated banks and central banks.  

 OTC Derivatives. Derivatives are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis (i.e., the net payable or receivable for derivative assets and liabilities for a given counterparty) when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement.  

 Derivatives are accounted for at fair value net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support agreements. As credit risk is an essential component of fair value, the firm includes a credit valuation adjustment (CVA) in the fair value of derivatives to reflect counterparty credit risk, as described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. CVA is a function of the present value of expected exposure, the probability of counterparty default and the assumed recovery upon default.    

 90  
 The tables below present the distribution of our exposure to OTC derivatives by tenor, based on expected duration for mortgage-related credit derivatives and generally on remaining contractual   

 maturity for other derivatives, both before and after the effect of collateral and netting agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating agency equivalents.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1.   Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across tenor categories under enforceable netting agreements, and the netting of cash collateral received under credit support agreements. Receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same tenor category are netted within such tenor category.     

 91  
 Lending Activities. We manage the firm’s traditional credit origination activities, including funded loans, lending commitments and the William Street credit extension program, using the credit risk process, measures and limits described above. Other lending positions, including secondary trading positions, are risk-managed as a component of market risk.  

 Resale Agreements and Securities Borrowed. The firm bears credit risk related to resale agreements and securities borrowed only to the extent that cash advanced to the counterparty exceeds the value of the collateral received. Therefore, the firm’s credit exposure on these transactions is significantly lower than the amounts recorded on the consolidated statement of financial condition (which represent fair value or contractual value before consideration of collateral received). The firm also has credit exposure on repurchase agreements and securities loaned, which are liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition, to the extent that the value of collateral pledged to the counterparty for these transactions exceeds the amount of cash received.  

 Other Credit Exposures. The firm is exposed to credit risk from its receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and customers and counterparties. Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations are primarily comprised of initial margin placed with clearing organizations and receivables related to sales of securities which have traded, but not yet settled. These receivables have minimal credit risk due to the low probability of clearing organization default and the short-term nature of receivables related to securities settlements. Receivables from customers and counterparties are generally comprised of collateralized receivables related to customer securities transactions and have minimal credit risk due to both the value of the collateral received and the short-term nature of these receivables.   

 Credit Exposures  

 The tables below present the firm’s credit exposures related to cash, OTC derivatives, loans and lending commitments associated with traditional credit origination activities, and securities financing transactions, broken down by industry, region and internal credit rating.  

 During the year ended December 2010, total credit exposures increased by $10.51 billion reflecting an increase in loans and lending commitments. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in lending activity and a modest increase in average commitment size. During the year ended December 2010, incidence of counterparty default and the associated credit losses have declined compared with the year ended December 2009. The credit quality of the overall portfolio as of December 2010 is relatively unchanged although OTC derivative exposure to non-investment-grade counterparties declined approximately 25% from December 2009.  

 92  
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 93  
 Operational Risk   

 Overview  

 Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Our exposure to operational risk arises from routine processing errors as well as extraordinary incidents, such as major systems failures. Potential types of loss events related to internal and external operational risk include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The firm maintains a comprehensive control framework designed to provide a well-controlled environment to minimize operational risks. The Firmwide Operational Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and implementation of our operational risk policies and framework. Our Operational Risk Management department (Operational Risk Management) is a risk management function independent of our revenue-producing units and is responsible for developing and implementing policies, methodologies and a formalized framework for operational risk management with the goal of minimizing our exposure to operational risk.  

 Operational Risk Management  

 Managing operational risk requires timely and accurate information as well as a strong control culture. We seek to manage our operational risk through:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 We combine top-down and bottom-up approaches to manage and measure operational risk. From a top-down perspective, the firm’s senior management assesses firmwide and business level operational risk profiles. From a bottom-up perspective, revenue-producing units and independent control and support functions are responsible for risk management on a day-to-day basis, including identifying, mitigating, and escalating operational risks to senior management.  

 Our operational risk framework is in part designed to comply with the operational risk measurement rules under Basel 2 and has evolved based on the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance. Our framework includes the following practices:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Internal Audit performs a review of our operational risk framework, including our key controls, processes and applications, on an annual basis to ensure the effectiveness of our framework.  

 Risk Identification and Reporting  

 The core of our operational risk management framework is risk identification and reporting. We have a comprehensive data collection process, including firmwide policies and procedures, for operational risk events.  

 We have established policies that require managers in our revenue-producing units and our independent control and support functions to escalate operational risk events. When operational risk events are identified, our policies require that the events be documented and analyzed to determine whether changes are required in the firm’s systems and/or processes to further mitigate the risk of future events.  

 In addition, our firmwide systems capture internal operational risk event data, key metrics such as transaction volumes, and statistical information such as performance trends. We use an internally-developed operational risk management application to aggregate and organize this information. Managers from both revenue-producing units and independent control and support functions analyze the information to evaluate operational risk exposures and identify businesses, activities or products with heightened levels of operational risk. We also provide operational risk reports to senior management, risk committees and the Board periodically.    

 94  
 Risk Measurement  

 We measure the firm’s operational risk exposure over a twelve-month time horizon using scenario analyses, together with qualitative assessments of the potential frequency and extent of potential operational risk losses, for each of the firm’s businesses. Operational risk measurement incorporates qualitative and quantitative assessments of factors including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The results from these scenario analyses are used to monitor changes in operational risk and to determine business lines that may have heightened exposure to operational risk. These analyses ultimately are used to determine the appropriate level of operational risk capital to hold.  

 Risk Monitoring  

 We evaluate changes in the operational risk profile of the firm and its businesses, including changes in business mix or jurisdictions in which the firm operates, by monitoring these factors at a firmwide, entity and business level. The firm has both detective and preventive internal controls, which are designed to reduce the frequency and severity of operational risk losses and the probability of operational risk events. We monitor the results of assessments and independent internal audits of these internal controls.   

 Recent Accounting Developments   

 See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information about Recent Accounting Developments.   

 Certain Risk Factors That May Affect  

 Our Businesses   

 We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. For a discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these risks, see “Overview and Structure of Risk Management.” A summary of the more important factors that could affect our businesses follows. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 95  
  •   Group Inc. is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to restrictions.   

  •   Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold.   

  •   Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and lending activities.   

  •   The financial services industry is highly competitive.   

  •   We face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets.   

  •   Derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses.   

  •   Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees.   

  •   Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.   

  •   We may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity.   

  •   A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses.     

  •   Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.   

  •   The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.   

  •   Our commodities activities, particularly our power generation interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs.   

  •   In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.   

  •   We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters.     

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk