PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

General Information  

Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bancorp’s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

The Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2010.  

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Competition  

The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Bancorp’s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.  

Acquisitions  

The Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.  

Additional information regarding acquisitions is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Regulation and Supervision  

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial 

  130    Fifth Third Bancorp    

Table of Contents 

 institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions and the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank, such as the Bancorp. In addition, the supervision, regulation and examination of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries by the bank regulatory agencies is not intended for the protection of the Bancorp’s security holders. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.  

The Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the “Division”). The Bancorp is required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by, the FRB and the Division. The FRB has the authority to issue orders to bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsound banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB. The FRB is also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals who violate the BHCA or orders or regulations there under, to order termination of non-banking activities of non-banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and to order termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. Applicable state and federal law also grant the FRB and the Division the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information.  

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB, for a bank holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any bank holding company.  

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 generally authorizes bank holding companies to acquire banks located in any state, subject to certain state-imposed age and deposit concentration limits, and also generally authorizes interstate bank holding company and bank mergers and to a lesser extent, interstate branching.  

 The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding company (“FHC”) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank holding company under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become a FHC if each of its subsidiary banks is well capitalized, is well managed and has at least a “Satisfactory” rating under the Community 

 Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). Dodd-Frank also extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to the bank holding company. In 2000, the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result in restrictions on the activities of the FHC or loss of FHC status. If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be available to the public.  

Unless a bank holding company becomes a FHC under GLBA, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.  

The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding company’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its subsidiary bank to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends and its subsidiary bank is subject to regulatory limitations on the amount of dividends it may declare and pay.  

Under FRB policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it.  

The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and examination by the Division, the FRB, and the FDIC, which insures the deposits of the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank to the maximum extent permitted by law. The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of banks.  

In 2006, the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 was signed into law (“FDIRA”). Pursuant to the FDIRA, the Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Fund were merged to create the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). The FDIC was granted broader authority in adjusting deposit insurance premium rates and more flexibility in establishing the designated reserve ratio.  

 As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions with more than $10 billion in assets (“large IDIs”) are assessed for purposes of payments to the DIF. The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system was released on February 7, 2011, and will take effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011. 

     Fifth Third Bancorp    131 

Table of Contents 

Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI’s DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI’s domestic deposit base. Section 331(b) of Dodd-Frank changed the assessment base from an IDI’s domestic deposit base to its total assets. In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a large IDI’s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.  

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based system. Under the new system, large IDIs will be assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.  

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank and an affiliated company, including a parent bank holding company. The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank is subject to certain restrictions on loans to affiliated companies, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of similar transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital.  

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of these communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of each of the subsidiary banks in helping to meet the credit needs of their communities. As a part of the CRA program, the subsidiary banks are subject to periodic examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these examinations, the FRB rates such institutions’ compliance with CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” Failure of an institution to receive at least a “Satisfactory” rating could inhibit such institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of banks in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Fifth Third Bank received a “Satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent CRA examination.  

 The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank holding companies and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. In addition, as of the Dodd-Frank Act “transfer date” (currently anticipated to be July 21, 2011), the Bancorp also must be well capitalized and well managed to retain its financial holding company status. 

Historically, the minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies typically followed the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued the final text of a comprehensive update of the 2004 Basel II Accord (“Basel III”). On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued an Annex to Basel III containing the final elements of reform to the definition of regulatory capital. Basel III aims to reform the international financial system by instituting significantly higher global capital requirements and new liquidity and leverage standards. Basel III is not itself binding, but rather must be adopted into United States law or regulation before affecting banks supervised in the United States. Moreover, if adopted in the United States Basil III likely would not become effective until 2013, and its provision would be subject to a multi-year transition period.  

Basel III significantly revises the definitions of regulatory capital, establishing separate capital requirements for common equity Tier 1 Capital (a new regulatory metric), Tier 1 Capital, consisting of the sum of Tier 1 Common Equity and Additional Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital, consisting of the sum of Tier 1 Common Equity, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital. Basel III, if implemented, ultimately would require banks to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Common Equity Capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6%, and a minimum Total Capital ratio of 8%. Among other significant reforms to the definition of regulatory capital, Basel III disqualifies certain structured capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from Tier 1 capital status. (Dodd-Frank also disqualifies trust-preferred and similar instruments over a three year period beginning in 2013.) In addition to higher minimum capital standards, Basel III also institutes new capital conservation and countercyclical buffers that could, if fully implemented, create significant incentive for banks to maintain up to an additional 5% above the minimum capital requirements.  

Basel III also introduces two measures of liquidity based on risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario and one designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon.  

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors (the “Board).  

 The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the subsidiary bank’s policies and procedures. The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank has 

  132    Fifth Third Bancorp    

Table of Contents 

 implemented a privacy policy. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act.  

Certain mutual fund and unit investment trust custody and administrative clients are regulated as “investment companies” as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “ICA), and are subject to various examination and reporting requirements. The provisions of the ICA and the regulations promulgated there under prescribe the type of institution that may act as a custodian of investment company assets, as well as the manner in which a custodian administers the assets in its custody. As a custodian for a number of investment company clients, these regulations require, among other things, that certain minimum aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit levels are maintained by the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank, and also require the Bancorp to manage and retain certain information about investment company clients pursuant to specific ICA requirements that are in addition to the Bancorp’s management and retention responsibilities under other applicable federal and state laws. Additionally, our arrangements with clearing agencies or other securities depositories must meet ICA requirements for segregation of assets, identification of assets and client approval. New legislation or regulatory requirements could have a significant impact on the information reporting requirements applicable to the Bancorp and may in the short term adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to service investment company clients at a reasonable cost.  

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of “broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be “brokerage” activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer. 

Emergency Economic Stabilization  

On October 3, 2008, in response to the stresses experienced in the financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) was enacted. EESA authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase up to $700 billion in troubled assets from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. Troubled assets include residential or commercial mortgages and related instruments originated prior to March 14, 2008 and any other financial instrument that the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial stability.  

Capital Purchase Program  

Pursuant to its authority under EESA, Treasury created the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under which the Treasury Department was authorized to invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies. Qualifying financial institutions could issue senior preferred stock with a value equal to not less than 1% of risk-weighted assets and not more than the lesser of $25 billion or 3% of risk-weighted assets.  

In connection with the issuance of the senior preferred, participating institutions were required to issue to Treasury immediately exercisable 10-year warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the amount of senior preferred.  

On December 31, 2008, the Bancorp entered into a Letter Agreement (including the Securities Purchase Agreement—Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, the “Purchase Agreement) with Treasury pursuant to which the Company issued and sold to Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.4 billion in cash: (i) 136,320 shares of the Company’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, having a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the “Series F Preferred Stock), and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of the Company’s common stock, no par value per share, at an initial exercise price of $11.72 per share.  

In the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp agreed that, until such time as Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Bancorp acquired pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp would take all necessary action to ensure that its benefit plans with respect to its senior executive officers comply with Section 111(b) of EESA as implemented by any guidance or regulation under the EESA that had been issued and was in effect as of the date of issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant, and agreed to not adopt any benefit plans with respect to, or which covers, its senior executive officers that do not comply with the EESA.  

On February 2, 2011 the Bancorp repurchased the Series F Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to TARP. The Bancorp notified the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its intention to negotiate for the purchase of the warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury.  

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program  

On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a new financial stability plan (the “Financial Stability Plan”), which built upon existing programs and earmarked the second $350 billion of unused funds originally authorized under EESA. Pursuant to the CAP, the Bancorp, along with the other domestic bank holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion at December 31, 2008, was subject to a forward-looking stress test called the Supervisory Capital Assessment 

     Fifth Third Bancorp    133 

Table of Contents 

 Program (the “SCAP”). The SCAP exam evaluated the projected level and quality of each institution’s capital during specified economic scenarios through the end of 2010, which included a baseline scenario, reflecting a consensus estimate of private-sector forecasters, and a more adverse scenario, reflecting an economic situation more severe than is generally anticipated.  

On May 7, 2009, the Bancorp announced its SCAP results. The results of the SCAP assessment indicated that the Bancorp’s Tier 1 Capital and Total Risk-Based Capital ratios were expected to continue to exceed the levels required to maintain a “well-capitalized” status under the more adverse scenario as defined by the assessment. As a result, the Bancorp was not required to raise additional overall capital. The SCAP results did indicate that the Bancorp’s Tier 1 common equity would be required to be augmented to maintain a capital buffer above the newly required four percent threshold of the Tier 1 common equity ratio under the more adverse scenario of the assessment. The total amount required, prior to considering activities by the Bancorp since the end of the fourth quarter of 2008, was $2.6 billion. After considering such activities, including the sale of the Bancorp’s processing business, the indicated additional net Tier 1 common equity required was $1.1 billion. During the second quarter of 2009, in order to raise additional capital to augment Tier 1 common equity, the Bancorp completed a $1 billion common stock offering and an exchange of a portion of its Series G preferred stock. As a result of the common stock offering, the exchange of the preferred stock, and the sale of its processing business, the Bancorp exceeded its Tier 1 common equity requirement under the SCAP assessment by approximately $650 million. Additionally, in July of 2009, the Bancorp sold its Visa, Inc. Class B common shares resulting in an additional net $206 million benefit to equity.  

Regulatory Reform  

On July 21, 2010 President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is aimed, in part, at accountability and transparency in the financial system and includes a numerous provisions that apply to and/or could impact the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank. Some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are set forth below.  

Financial Stability Oversight Council  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial services regulators. The Financial Stability Oversight Council has responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability.  

Executive Compensation  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each company must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions.  

 The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a company’s compensation committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel 

 or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.  

The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a company’s stock and dividends or distributions.  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-years period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC, by rule, to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.  

Corporate Governance  

The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company’s proxy materials include a nominee for the board of directors submitted by a shareholder.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.  

Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of provisions that are targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. The SEC has been charged with adopting various rules in this regard.  

Consumer Issues  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will be housed within the Federal Reserve System but which will be independent. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection will have the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous consumer protection laws and will have supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement actions, with respect to depository institutions with more than $10 billion in consolidated assets. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection will also have new authority, among 

  134    Fifth Third Bancorp    

Table of Contents 

 other things, to declare acts “unfair, deceptive or abusive” and to require certain consumer disclosures.  

Debit Card Interchange Fees  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new rules requiring that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be “reasonable” and proportional to certain costs associated with processing the transactions. The FRB is given authority to establish standards for assessing whether interchange fees are reasonable and proportional.  

FDIC Matters  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing financial companies that are not insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the FDIC new authority to create a widely available emergency financial stabilization program to guarantee the obligations of solvent depository institutions and their holding companies and affiliates during times of severe economic stress. Additionally Dodd-Frank also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.  

Volker Rule  

In the “Volker Rule,” the Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new restrictions on banking organizations’ ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsorship of or investment in private equity and hedge funds. The Volker Rule also generally prohibits any banking entity from sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund. The Volker Rule, however, contains a number of exceptions. The Volker Rule permits transactions in the securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business investment companies. Transactions on behalf of customers and in connection with certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign banking activities are also permitted. Dodd-Frank also defines certain parameters with respect to a permissible de minimis investment in a private equity or hedge fund that the banking entity organizes and offers. In addition to the general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volker Rule contains a second set of requirements applicable to any private equity or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.  

Derivatives  

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth a new regulatory system for the U.S. market for swaps and other over-the-counter derivatives. Under this new regime, all derivatives transactions and all entities that enter into them could be subject to potential regulations, and the goal of the regulatory framework is to promote the stability of the entire financial system and further transparency and competition in the derivatives market.  

Interstate Bank Branching  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national and insured state banks to engage in de novo interstate branching if, under the laws of the state where the new branch is to be established, as state bank chartered in that state would be permitted to establish a branch. 

Capital  

The Dodd-Frank Act instructs the FRB to seek to make capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies countercyclical, with a higher level required in times of economic expansion and lower level needed in times of economic contraction.  

Systemically Significant Companies  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for entities that are deemed to be “systemically significant financial companies.” The Dodd-Frank Act sets a $50 billion consolidated asset floor for a bank holding company to be subject to the heightened oversight and regulation, although the FRB can adjust those amounts upward for some of the heightened standards under certain circumstances. Dodd-Frank establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a new regime for the orderly liquidation of financial companies whose failure would pose systemic risk is also created. 

     Fifth Third Bancorp    135 

Table of Contents 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES