PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Note – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is December 31, 2016 unless additional years are included or noted.

Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on our website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.

Overview

Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as 'Fastenal' or the 'Company' or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We opened our first store in 1967 in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 27,000. We began with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. Over time, that mandate has expanded to a broader range of industrial and construction supplies that we break into twelve product lines (described later in this document). The large majority of our transactions are business-to-business, though we also have some 'walk-in' retail business. At the end of 2016, we had 2,503 store locations in 21 countries supported by 14 distribution centers in North America (eleven in the United States, two in Canada, and one in Mexico), and we employed 19,624 people. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products and services from convenient locations, as well as to the high quality of our employees.

The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of the store locations we operated at the end of each year, as well as the store openings, closings, and conversions during each year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Panama, Brazil, Colombia, and Chile

(2) China and India

(3) Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand

(4) The Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Poland, and Sweden

(5) South Africa

(6) Converted stores are sites converted from stores to non-store selling locations, net of sites converted from non-store selling locations to stores.

3
Our stores represent the foundation of our service approach, putting us close to the customer and providing an efficient means of providing them with a broad range of products and services on a timely basis. We believe there are few companies that offer our store coverage on a national basis. We are constantly evaluating the efficacy of our store network. There are times when this leads us to open new locations. We select these new locations based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and non-residential construction. We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines, and over time, our district and store personnel may tailor the inventory offering to the needs of the local customer base. In both 2016 and 2015, we opened new stores at a rate of approximately 2%. Our store network evaluations also reveal locations that are candidates for closure, consolidation, or conversion, as was the case in 2016 and 2015. This resulted in a net decrease in store locations in each of the last two years.

We currently have several versions of selling locations. (1) A 'traditional store' services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of the products we offer. (2) An 'overseas store' focuses on manufacturing customers and our fastener product line and is the format we typically deploy outside the United States and Canada. (3) A 'strategic account store' is a unique location that sells to multiple large accounts in a market. (4) A 'strategic account site' is similar to a strategic account store, but typically operates out of an existing store rather than from a unique location. (5) An 'Onsite location' is a selling unit located in or near a customer's facility that sells product solely to that customer. Because traditional, overseas, and strategic account stores sell to multiple customers, they are included in our total store count. Neither strategic account sites nor Onsite locations are included in our total store count because strategic account sites operate from an existing store location and Onsite locations represent a customer subset of an existing store location.

We have long maintained that marketplace demographics could support a North American network of 3,500 stores. We continue to believe this, but since establishing this figure our strategy has changed. Store openings, at least in their historical sense (the 'traditional store'), are no longer our primary growth driver. At this point, the emergence of, and increased investment in, new growth drivers and business models make it unlikely that we will approach the total store potential of North America. These new growth drivers include industrial vending, Onsite locations, and end market growth investments (CSP 16, for example), as well as the investment in sales personnel (both store and non-store) to support them. These represent alternative means to address the requirements of certain customer groups. They also get us even closer to our customers than the traditional store, which has always been core to Fastenal’s strategy and an effective means of providing differentiated and 'sticky' service that is very difficult for large and small competitors to replicate. These growth drivers appear to have substantial market opportunities of their own. For instance, we believe the market could support approximately 1.7 million industrial vending machines. We have also identified over 15,000 customer locations with potential to implement the Onsite service model. We remain committed to a large, robust store network; it remains the indispensable foundation of our business. Still, our store count peaked in 2013 and has declined in each of the three years since, and more often than not going forward, it will likely be difficult to know if our total store count will increase or decrease in any given year. In contrast, we expect to grow our installed base of industrial vending machines and increase our Onsite locations meaningfully over time.

We plan to open additional selling locations outside of the United States in the future. The selling locations outside of the United States contributed approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2016, with approximately 49% and 30% of this amount attributable to our Canadian and Mexican operations, respectively.

It has been our experience that our profitability is affected by the age of our store base. New stores tend to be less profitable due to start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates most of its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires at least ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month. To illustrate, of the 17 stores opened in the first quarter of 2016, nine were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2016. It has also been our experience that when these new stores mature and increase their sales base, their profitability similarly increases.

4
The data in the following table shows the change in the average sales of our stores from 2015 to 2016 based on the age of each store. The stores opened in 2016 contributed approximately $14,900 (or approximately 0.4%) of our consolidated net sales in 2016, with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to 2016 or from our non-store business. Included in the average monthly sales amounts are sales from our non-store selling locations, such as our Holo-Krome® business (included in the 2009 group, the year it was acquired) and our Onsite locations. Onsite locations are considered an extension of the store in which the customer relationship originated; therefore, we include the average sales of our Onsite locations in the year in which the 'home store' opened.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We closed 144 and 50 stores in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The number of closed stores is noted in the table above as 2016 number/2015 number. 

(2) We converted 16 and six stores to non-store selling locations in 2016 and 2015, respectively, and converted one non-store selling location to a store in 2016. The number of net converted stores is noted in the table above as 2016 number/2015 number. 

(3) The average monthly sales include sales from stores open for less than the full fiscal year.

We introduced our industrial vending offering in 2008. The initiative began to gain significant traction in 2011, and has since been an expanding component of our business. From the start, we believed vending could be transformative to industrial distribution because it provided our customers the benefits of reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability. We also believed we had a ‘first mover’ advantage with the technology and a market advantage by virtue of our extensive store network. With approximately 62,800 units in the field at the end of 2016, vending is not a new initiative for us. However, we believe it has proven its effectiveness in strengthening our relationships with customers and helped to streamline the supply chain where it has been utilized. We also believe there remains considerable room between our current installed base and the potential installed base of the market. As a result, we anticipate continued growth in installed units over time. 

We operate eleven regional distribution centers in the United States – Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas, and three outside the United States – Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These 14 distribution centers give us approximately 3.5 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit deliveries of two to five times per week to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of our selling locations increases, we intend to add new distribution centers. The distribution centers in Indiana and California also serve as a 'master' hub to support the needs of the stores in their geographic region as well as provide a broader selection of products for the stores serviced by the other distribution centers.

We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, California, North Carolina, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with automated storage and retrieval systems or 'ASRS'. These nine distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 85% of our picking activity. The Indiana facility also contains our centralized replenishment facility for a portion of our industrial vending business. This operation is also highly automated. We intend to invest in this type of ASRS distribution infrastructure over the next several years at our Washington and Kansas distribution centers.

5
Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-business, distribution center, and vending systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each selling location uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized, purchased, and licensed software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users.

Trademarks and Service Marks

We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including First In Fasteners®. Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the 'Fastenal' name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business.

Products

Our original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal® product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories.

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then encourage the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops.

Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in 2016, 2015, and 2014 and approximately 33%, 34%, and 36% of our consolidated sales in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.

Since 1993, we have added additional product lines. These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line, and more recently portions of our non-fastener product lines are also sold through industrial vending machines. The most significant of these is our safety supplies product line, which accounted for approximately 15%, 14%, and 13% of our sales in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.

Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories. 

During the last several years, we have added 'private label' brands (we often refer to these as 'Fastenal brands') to our offering. These private label brands represented approximately 12%, 12%, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. Most of these private label products are in the non-fastener product lines.

We plan to continue to add other products in the future.

Inventory Control

Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our selling locations, from individual selling locations, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and store personnel. Non-store selling locations stock inventory based on customer-specific arrangements. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the selling locations served by the respective distribution center. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call 'inventory re-distribution'.

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations

In 2016, approximately 96% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 4% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers' specifications or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome® and Cardinal Fasteners® product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales.

6
Sources of Supply

We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in 2016.

Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for distribution equipment, two main suppliers for our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary.

Geographic Information

Information regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic location is set forth in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices, as well as net sales at our foreign locations, could be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies.

Customers and Marketing

We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO). The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production, and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of 2016, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 400,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts each month with purchase activity of at least $250 per month) was approximately 106,000.

In 2016, no one customer accounted for more than 5% of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers, together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. However, slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other interrelated industries, which can mute the benefit of this protection. Examples include the collapse of oil and other commodity prices, which has had a detrimental impact not only on customers in the oil and gas, agriculture, and mining industries, but also other industries, such as heavy equipment manufacturers, servicing these customers. This impact is compounded if it is a global rather than a regional issue.

Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local storefronts and selling personnel. We support our stores with multi-channel marketing including email and online marketing, print and radio advertising, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, and store signage. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on NASCAR® sponsorships through our partnership with Roush Fenway Racing®. In 2016 and 2015, we presented the Fastenal® brand to millions of Sprint Cup fans as the primary sponsor of Ricky Stenhouse Jr.'s No. 17 car. 

Seasonality

Seasonality has some impact on our sales. During the winter months, our sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. Also, sales to our industrial production customers may decrease during the Fourth of July holiday period, the Thanksgiving holiday period (October in Canada and November in the United States), and the Christmas and New Year holiday period, due to plant shut downs.

Competition

Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include large distributors located primarily in large cities, smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have stores, and on-line retailers. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions.

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order, websites, or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe the convenience provided to customers by operating selling locations (primarily stores) in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage. The convenience of a large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our industrial vending, combined with our local storefront, provides a unique way to provide to our customers convenient access to products and cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see 'Employees' below).

7
Our Onsite service model provides us with a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local store, the Onsite model provides value to our customers through customized service while giving us a competitive advantage through stronger relationships with those customers, all with a relatively low investment given the existing store and distribution structure.

Employees

We employ a total of 19,624 full and part-time employees, most of whom are employed at a store or an Onsite location. We characterize these personnel as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to 'promote from within'. For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.

The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific education and training programs that are offered to our employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees' performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution.

Our sales personnel are compensated with a base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store, district, and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit and trade accounts receivable collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, earnings growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined departmental, project, and cost containment goals.

Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.

8
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS