ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in parts of South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast. Other wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiaries provide fiber optic and other telecommunications services and provide service contracts on certain home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA and its subsidiaries.

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

The following percentages reflect revenues and net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses (including the holding company) and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25

Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook

During 2013, economic growth continued to improve in the southeast. Significant industrial announcements were made in the Company’s South Carolina and North Carolina service territories during the year, and announcements made in previous years began to materialize. In addition, the Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic, with container volume up 5.7% over 2012. Residential and commercial customer growth rates in the Company’s regulated businesses also remained positive. Unemployment rates for the states in which the Company primarily provides service also improved in 2013, though such rates improved in part due to people leaving the workforce. Nationwide, the civilian labor force participation rate was 62.8% at December 31, 2013, matching a 35-year low. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at its regulated subsidiaries, consisting primarily of capital expenditures for new generating capacity, environmental facilities and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses and taxes.

Electric Operations

The electric operations segment is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company, and is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina. At December 31, 2013, SCE&G provided electricity to approximately 678,000 customers in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

Operating results for electric operations are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. Through 2013, the effect of weather on operating results was largely mitigated by the eWNA; however, the eWNA was discontinued pursuant to SCPSC order effective with the first billing cycle of January 2014. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity in 2013 was 10.25% for non-BLRA expenditures, and 11.0% for BLRA-related expenditures. As further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, SCE&G's allowed return on equity for non-BLRA expenditures was 10.7% prior to 2013. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources.

SCE&G files an IRP with the SCPSC annually which evaluates future electric generation needs based on a variety of factors, including customer energy demands, EPA regulations, reserve margins and fuel costs. SCE&G's 2012 IRP identified six coal-fired units that SCE&G has subsequently retired or intends to retire by 2018, subject to future developments in environmental regulations, among other matters. These units had an aggregate generating capacity (2012 summer rating) of 730 MW. As of December 31, 2013, three of these units have been retired. For additional information, see Note 1 and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

New Nuclear Construction

SCE&G is constructing two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear generation units at the site of Summer Station. SCE&G will jointly own the New Units with Santee Cooper, and SCE&G will be responsible for the cost of and receive the output from the New Units in proportion to its share of ownership, with Santee Cooper responsible for and receiving the remaining share. SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%. Under an agreement signed in January 2014 (and subject to customary closing conditions, including necessary regulatory approvals), SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units. Under the terms of this agreement, SCE&G will acquire a one percent ownership interest in the New Units at the commercial operation date of Unit 2, will acquire an additional two percent ownership interest no later than the first anniversary of such commercial operation date, and will acquire the final 

26

two percent no later than the second anniversary of such commercial operation date. In addition, the agreement provides that Santee Cooper will not transfer any of its remaining interest in the New Units to third parties until the New Units are complete.

SCE&G expects Unit 2 to be placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018, with Unit 3's in-service date approximately 12 months later. SCE&G's share of the estimated cash outlays (future value, excluding AFC) for its current 55% ownership share totals approximately $5.4 billion for plant and related transmission infrastructure costs, which costs are projected based on historical one-year and five-year escalation rates as required by the SCPSC. In addition, under the terms of the agreement previously described, SCE&G has agreed to pay an amount equal to Santee Cooper's actual cost of the percentage conveyed as of the date of conveyance, which SCE&G estimates will be approximately $500 million for the entire 5% interest. 

Significant recent developments in new nuclear construction include the following:

•In the first quarter of 2013, initial pouring of the Unit 2 nuclear island basemat was completed. The basemat provides a foundation for the containment vessel, shield building and auxiliary building that make up the nuclear island. The Unit 3 nuclear island basemat was completed in the fourth quarter of 2013.

•In April 2013, the 500-ton CR-10 module was set on the Unit 2 basemat. CR-10 supports the containment vessel. Construction of Unit 3's CR-10 module is currently underway.

•In May 2013, the containment vessel bottom head for Unit 2 was put in place. The containment vessel will house numerous reactor system components, such as the reactor vessel, steam generator and pressurizer. Work continues in building containment vessel rings that will be placed on the containment vessel bottom head for Unit 2.

•In September 2013, the reactor vessel cavity for Unit 2 (CA-04 module) was placed in the containment vessel bottom head. The reactor vessel cavity will house the reactor vessel, which in turn will house the fuel assemblies. The reactor vessel for Unit 2 is on-site.

•Fabrication has begun for Unit 2's steam generator and refueling canal module (CA-01 module) that will be located inside the containment vessel. 

•Ring 1 of the Unit 2 containment vessel is scheduled to be placed on the containment vessel bottom head in the second quarter 2014. Ring 2 is scheduled to be placed in the fourth quarter of 2014.

•While progress has been made with production, quality assurance and quality control issues, the schedule for fabrication of sub-modules at the contractor facility remains a focus area for the project.

•During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Consortium began a full re-baselining of the Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules. SCE&G anticipates that this revised schedule and the cost estimate at completion for all non-firm and fixed scopes of work will be finalized in the third quarter of 2014. SCE&G plans to reevaluate and reschedule its owners cost estimates and cash flow requirements in light of the new schedule.

For additional information on these and other matters, see New Nuclear Construction Matters herein and Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental

As part of the President's Climate Action Plan and by Presidential Memorandum issued June 25, 2013, the EPA was directed to issue a revised carbon standard for new power plants by re-proposing NSPS under the CAA for emissions of carbon dioxide from newly constructed fossil fuel-fired units. The rule became final on January 8, 2014 and requires all new fossil fuel-fired power plants to meet the carbon dioxide emissions profile of a combined cycle natural gas plant. While most new natural gas plants will not be required to include any new technologies, no new coal-fired plants could be constructed without carbon capture and sequestration capabilities. The Company is evaluating the final rule, but does not plan to construct new coal-fired units in the near future. The Memorandum also directed the EPA to issue standards, regulations, or guidelines for existing units by June 1, 2014, to be made final no later than June 1, 2015.

The CWA provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. New federal effluent limitation guidelines for steam electric generating units were published in the Federal Register on 

27

June 7, 2013, and the ELG Rule is expected to be finalized May 22, 2014. The EPA expects compliance as soon as possible after July 2017 but no later than July 2020. Additionally, the EPA is expected to issue a rule that modifies requirements for existing cooling water intake structures in early 2014, and Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the CWA.

In response to a federal court order to establish a definite timeline for a CCR rule, the EPA has said it will issue new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCRs, such as ash, by December 14, 2014. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCRs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. 

The above environmental initiatives and other similar issues are described in Environmental Matters herein and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Unless otherwise noted, the Company cannot predict when regulatory rules or legislative requirements for any of these initiatives will become final, if at all, or what conditions they may impose on the Company, if any. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

Gas Distribution

The gas distribution segment, comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy, is primarily engaged in the purchase, transportation and sale of natural gas to retail customers in portions of South Carolina and North Carolina. At December 31, 2013 this segment provided natural gas to approximately 838,000 customers in areas covering 34,600 square miles.

Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity of 10.25% for SCE&G and 10.60% for PSNC Energy.

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and will impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. In addition, the production of shale gas in the United States has resulted in significantly lower prices for this commodity, and such prices are expected to continue for the foreseeable future.

Retail Gas Marketing

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, comprises the retail gas marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas to approximately 454,000 customers throughout Georgia (as of December 31, 2013, and includes approximately 68,000 customers in its regulated division described below). SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximate 30% share of the customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. SCANA Energy’s competitors include an affiliate of a large energy company with experience in Georgia’s energy market, as well as several electric membership cooperatives. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors, its ability to continue to provide high levels of customer service and other factors. In addition, SCANA Energy's operating results are highly sensitive to weather. This market has matured in the last decade, resulting in lower margins and enhanced competition for customers.

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service at rates approved by the GPSC to low-income customers and to customers unable to obtain or maintain natural gas service from other marketers . SCANA Energy receives funding from Georgia's Universal Service Fund to offset some of the bad debt associated with the low-income group. In third quarter 2013, SCANA Energy’s contract to serve as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas was extended by the GPSC through August 31, 2015. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed with the SEC).

28

SCANA Energy and certain of SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. Since SCANA Energy operates in a competitive market, it may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and/or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. Further, there can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve.

Energy Marketing

The divisions of SEMI excluding SCANA Energy comprise the energy marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services to customers. The operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control growth of costs. Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2013 vs 2012 Basic earnings per share increased due to higher electric and gas margins. These margin increases were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, dilution from additional shares outstanding and higher interest expense, as further described below.

2012 vs 2011 Basic earnings per share increased due to higher electric and gas margins and gains on sales of communications towers. These increases were partially offset by higher operating expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, dilution from additional shares outstanding and higher interest expense, as further described below.

Diluted earnings per share figures give effect to dilutive potential common stock using the treasury stock method. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

Electric Operations

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

2013 vs 2012 Margin increased primarily due to base rate increases under the BLRA of $54.2 million and higher electric base rates of $67.3 million approved in the December 2012 rate order. Additionally, pursuant to accounting orders of the SCPSC, 2013's electric margin reflects downward adjustments of $50.1 million to revenue. Such adjustments are fully offset by the recognition within other income of gains realized upon the settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts, which had been deferred as regulatory liabilities. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

2012 vs 2011 Margin increased primarily by $54.4 million due to an increase in retail electric base rates approved by the SCPSC under the BLRA, by $3.7 million due to customer growth and by $11.0 million due to the expiration of a decrement rider approved in the 2010 retail electric base rate case. 

Sales volumes (in GWh) related to the electric margin above, by class, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2013 vs 2012 Retail sales volume increased primarily due to customer growth and the effects of weather, partially offset by lower average use. The decrease in wholesale sales is primarily due to the expiration of two customer contracts.

2012 vs 2011 Retail sales volume decreased by 983 GWh primarily due to the effects of milder weather. The increase in wholesale sales is primarily due to higher contract utilization by a wholesale customer.

Gas Distribution

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas Distribution sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2013 vs 2012 Margin increased primarily due to the SCPSC-approved increase in base rates under the RSA which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2012, as well as residential and commercial customer growth and increased industrial usage.

2012 vs 2011 Margin at SCE&G increased by $8.3 million due to the SCPSC-approved increases in retail gas base rates under the RSA which became effective with the first billing cycles of November 2011 and 2012. Margin at PSNC Energy increased by $5.1 million primarily due to residential and commercial customer growth and increased industrial sales due to the competitive price of gas versus alternate fuel sources.

30

Sales volumes (in MMBTU) by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2013 vs 2012 Total sales volumes increased primarily due to customer growth, increased industrial usage and the effects of weather.

2012 vs 2011 Residential and commercial sales volume decreased primarily due to milder weather. Industrial and transportation sales volumes increased due to the competitive price of gas versus alternate fuel sources.

Retail Gas Marketing

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*  Greater than 100%

2013 vs 2012 Changes in operating revenues and net income are due to higher demand in 2013 primarily as a result of milder weather in 2012.

2012 vs 2011 Reductions in operating revenues and net income were primarily due to milder weather and a decrease in the number of customers served under the regulated provider program in 2012.

Energy Marketing

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2013 vs 2012 Operating revenues and net income increased due to higher industrial sales volume and higher market prices.

2012 vs 2011 Operating revenues decreased due to lower market prices. Net income increased due to higher consumption.

Other Operating Expenses

Other operating expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

2013 vs 2012 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased by $16.7 million due to incremental expenses associated with the December 2012 SCPSC rate order and by $5.7 million due to higher electric generation, transmission and distribution expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower compensation costs of $10.1 million due to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation accruals and by other general expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $13.2 million due to the recognition of depreciation expense associated with the Wateree Station scrubber which was provided for in the December 2012 SCPSC rate order and due to other net plant additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes on net property additions.

2012 vs 2011 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased by $9.3 million due to higher generation, transmission and distribution expenses and by $25.0 million due to higher incentive compensation and other benefits. These increases were partially offset by $3.9 million due to lower customer service expenses, including bad debt expense, and by $1.6 million due to lower general expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to net property additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes on net property additions. 

Net Periodic Benefit Cost

 Net periodic benefit cost was recorded on the Company's income statements and balance sheets as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

Prior to July 15, 2010, the SCPSC allowed SCE&G to defer as a regulatory asset the amount of pension cost exceeding amounts included in rates for its retail electric and gas distribution regulated operations. In connection with the SCPSC's July 2010 electric rate order and November 2010 natural gas RSA order, SCE&G began deferring, as a regulatory asset, all pension cost related to retail electric and gas operations that otherwise would have been charged to expense. Effective in January 2013, in connection with the December 2012 rate order, SCE&G began amortizing previously deferred pension costs related to retail electric operations totaling approximately $63 million over approximately 30 years (see Note 2) and recovering current pension costs related to retail electric operations through a rate rider that may be adjusted annually. Similarly, in connection with the October 2013 RSA order, deferred pension cost related to gas operations of approximately $14 million is being amortized over approximately 14 years, and effective November 2013, SCE&G is recovering current pension expense related to gas operations through cost of service rates (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). In 2013, such amortizations totaled approximately $2.0 million for electric operations and $0.2 million for gas operations.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental activities of regulated subsidiaries and the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*  Greater than 100%

32

2013 vs 2012 Changes in other income were primarily due to the recognition, pursuant to SCPSC accounting orders, of $50.1 million of gains realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate derivatives which had been entered into in anticipation of the issuance of long-term debt, which gains had been deferred as regulatory liabilities. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income. This increase in other income was partially offset by the sales of communications towers that were recorded in 2012 by a non-regulated subsidiary. Changes in other expense were not significant.

2012 vs 2011 Changes in other income were primarily due to the sales of communications towers in 2012 by a non-regulated subsidiary. Changes in other expense were not significant.

AFC

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 5.8% of income before income taxes in 2013, 5.4% in 2012 and 3.9% in 2011.

Interest Expense

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest on long-term debt increased in each year primarily due to increased long-term borrowings. Other interest expense decreased in 2013 and 2012, primarily due to reductions in principal balances outstanding on short-term debt over the respective prior year and also decreased due to the reversal in 2012 of interest which had been accrued in 2011 related to a tax uncertainty that was resolved (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements).

Income Taxes

Income tax expense increased in 2013 over 2012 and in 2012 over 2011 primarily due to increases in income before taxes. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2013 is principally attributable to lower recognition of EIZ Credits upon the completion of the amortization of certain such credits in 2012. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, the incurrence of additional short- and long-term indebtedness and sales of equity securities. The Company expects that, barring a future impairment of the capital markets, it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, including the cash requirements for nuclear construction and refinancing maturing long-term debt. The Company’s ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 3.22.

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

33

The Company obtains equity from SCANA’s stock plans. Shares of SCANA common stock are acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through the original issuance of shares, rather than being purchased on the open market. This provided approximately $99 million of additional equity during 2013. Due primarily to new nuclear construction plans, the Company anticipates keeping this strategy in place for the foreseeable future. 

In addition, on March 5, 2013, SCANA settled all forward sales contracts related to its common stock through the issuance of approximately 6.6 million common shares, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $196 million. 

SCANA’s leverage ratio of long- and short-term debt to capital was approximately 56% at December 31, 2013. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to maintain its leverage ratio between 54% and 57%, but SCANA’s ability to do so depends on a number of factors. In the future, if SCANA is not able to maintain its leverage ratio within the desired range, the Company’s debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited.

Capital Expenditures

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, net of AFC, were $1.1 billion in 2013 and are estimated to be $1.7 billion in 2014.

The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for 2014-2016, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows:

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Estimated capital expenditures for Nuclear Fuel in 2016 include approximately $53 million, which is SCE&G's share of nuclear fuel it acquired in 2013. This fuel has been recorded in utility plant and the corresponding liability has been recorded in long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet.

34

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2013 are summarized as follows:

Contractual Cash Obligations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of the New Units at the Summer Station site. SCE&G expects to be a joint owner and share operating costs and generation output of the New Units, with SCE&G currently responsible for 55 percent of the cost and receiving 55 percent of the output, and the other joint owner (or owners) the remaining 45 percent. Also included in the table above is the estimated $500 million SCE&G expects it will cost to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units as further described in New Nuclear Construction Matters.

Also included in purchase obligations are customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty.

Other commercial commitments includes estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Other commercial commitments also includes a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases.

 In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no significant contributions are anticipated for the foreseeable future. Cash payments under the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plan were $9.2 million in 2013, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase up to $14.7 million in the future.

In addition, the Company is party to certain NYMEX natural gas futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. At December 31, 2013, the Company had posted $6.4 million in cash collateral for such contracts. In addition, the Company had posted $20.3 million in cash collateral related to interest rate derivative contracts.

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station Unit 1 and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financing Limits and Related Matters

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow.

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, bankers, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. 

35

GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $150 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2014.

 In October 2013, the Company's existing committed LOCs were extended by one year. As a result, at December 31, 2013 SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy were parties to five-year credit agreements in the amounts of $300 million, $1.2 billion, of which $500 million relates to Fuel Company, and $100 million, respectively, which expire in October 2018. In addition, at December 31, 2013 SCE&G was party to a three-year credit agreement in the amount of $200 million which expires in October 2016. These credit agreements are used for general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for each company's commercial paper program and working capital needs and, in the case of Fuel Company, to finance or refinance the purchase of nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels, and emission and other environmental allowances. For a list of banks providing credit support and other information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

As of December 31, 2013, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its $1.8 billion credit facilities, had approximately $376 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding, was obligated under $3.3 million in LOC supported letters of credit, and held approximately $136 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. Average short-term borrowings outstanding during 2013 were approximately $463 million. Short-term cash needs were met primarily through the issuance of commercial paper.

At December 31, 2013, the Company’s long-term debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of approximately 18 years and bears an average cost of 5.74%. Substantially all of the Company's long-term debt bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviews its projected capital expenditures and operating costs and adjusts them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service.

The Company’s articles of incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCANA’s junior subordinated indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Hybrids), SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) and PSNC Energy’s note purchase and debenture purchase agreements each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock.

The Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings from hydroelectric projects. At December 31, 2013, approximately $63.1 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock.

SCANA Corporation

SCANA has an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term notes. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued.

SCANA has outstanding $150 million of enhanced junior subordinated notes (Hybrids) which bear interest at 7.70% and mature on January 30, 2065, subject to extension to January 30, 2080. Because their structure and terms are characteristic of both debt instruments and equity securities, credit rating agencies consider securities like the Hybrids to be hybrid debt instruments and give some equity credit to the issuers of such securities for purposes of computing leverage ratios of debt to capital. The Hybrids are only subject to redemption at SCANA’s option and may be redeemed at any time, although the redemption prices payable by SCANA differ depending on the timing of the redemption and the circumstances (if any) giving rise thereto. SCANA may redeem the Hybrids on or after January 30, 2015, without payment of a make-whole amount.

In connection with the Hybrids, SCANA executed an RCC in favor of the holders of certain designated debt (referred to as “covered debt”). Under the terms of the RCC, SCANA agreed not to redeem or repurchase all or part of the Hybrids prior to the termination date of the RCC, unless it uses the proceeds of certain qualifying securities sold to non-affiliates within 180 days prior to the redemption or repurchase date. The proceeds SCANA receives from such qualifying securities, adjusted by a predetermined factor, must exceed the redemption or repurchase price of the Hybrids. Qualifying securities include common stock, and other securities that generally rank equal to or junior to the Hybrids and include distribution, deferral and long-dated maturity features similar to the Hybrids. For purposes of the RCC, non-affiliates include (but are not limited to) individuals enrolled in SCANA’s dividend reinvestment plan, direct stock purchase plan and employee benefit plans.

The RCC is scheduled to terminate on the earliest to occur of the following: (a) January 30, 2035 (or later, if the maturity date of the Hybrids is extended), (b) the date on which SCANA no longer has any eligible debt which ranks senior in right of payment to the Hybrids, (c) the date on which the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of “covered debt” 

36

agree to the termination thereof or (d) the date on which the Hybrids are accelerated following an event of default with respect thereto. SCANA’s $250 million in Medium Term Notes due April 1, 2020 are designated as “covered debt” under the RCC.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its first mortgage bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Bond Ratio was 5.28.

Financing Activities

During 2013 there were net cash outflows related to financing activities of approximately $40 million primarily due to repayment of short- and long-term debt and payment of dividends, partially offset by the issuance of common stock and long-term debt.

In June 2013, SCE&G issued $400 million of 4.60% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2043. Proceeds from this sale were used to pay at maturity $150 million of its 7.125% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2013, to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G's construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

In March 2013, SCE&G entered into a contract for the purchase of nuclear fuel totaling $100 million and payable in 2016.

On March 5, 2013, SCANA settled all forward sales contracts related to 6.6 million shares of its common stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $196 million.

In January 2013, JEDA issued for the benefit of SCE&G $39.5 million of 4.0% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due February 1, 2028, and $14.7 million of 3.625% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due February 1, 2033. Proceeds from these sales were loaned by JEDA to SCE&G and, together with other available funds, were used to redeem prior to maturity $56.9 million of 5.2% industrial revenue bonds due November 1, 2027.

In November 2012, SCE&G repaid at maturity $4.4 million of 4.2% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds, and repaid prior to maturity $29.2 million of 5.45% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due November 1, 2032.

In July 2012, SCE&G issued $250 million of 4.35% first mortgage bonds due February 1, 2042 (issued at a premium with a yield of 3.86%), which constituted a reopening of the prior offering of $250 million of 4.35% first mortgage bonds which were issued in January 2012. Proceeds from these sales were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G's construction program, to finance capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

In January 2012, SCANA issued $250 million of 4.125% medium term notes due February 1, 2022. Proceeds from the sale were used by SCANA to retire $250 million of its 6.25% medium term notes due February 1, 2012. 

Investing Activities

The Company paid approximately $6 million, net, through the third quarter of 2013 to settle interest rate derivative contracts upon the issuance of long-term debt for contracts that had been designated as hedges.

In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company received approximately $120 million upon the settlement of certain interest rate derivatives which had been entered into in anticipation of the issuance of long-term debt. Pursuant to SCPSC accounting orders, $50.1 million of such gains were recognized within other income, with such gain recognition being fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin. 

For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

37

In February 2014, SCANA increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on SCANA common stock to $.525 per share, an increase of approximately 3.5% from the prior declared dividend. The next quarterly dividend is payable April 1, 2014 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2014.

In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 (Tax Relief Act) was signed into law. Major tax incentives in the Tax Relief Act included 100% bonus depreciation for property placed in service after September 8, 2010 and through 2011 and 50% bonus depreciation for property placed in service for 2012. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 extended the 50% bonus depreciation for property placed in service in 2013. These incentives, along with certain other deductions, have had a positive impact on the cash flows of the Company.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the CAA, CWA, Nuclear Waste Act and CERCLA, among others. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which the Company expects to recover through existing ratemaking provisions.

For the three years ended December 31, 2013, the Company's capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at its fossil fuel generating stations totaled $46.1 million. In addition, the Company made expenditures to operate and maintain environmental control equipment at its fossil plants of $9.2 million in 2013, $10.2 million in 2012 and $7.9 million during 2011, which are included in “Other operation and maintenance” expense, and made expenditures to handle waste ash of $3.2 million in 2013, $7.9 million in 2012 and $8.7 million in 2011, which are included in “Fuel used in electric generation.” In addition, included within “Other operation and maintenance” expense is an annual amortization of $1.4 million in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011 related to SCE&G's recovery of MGP remediation costs as approved by the SCPSC. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $9.5 million for 2014 and $82.5 million for the four-year period 2015-2018. These expenditures are included in the Company's Estimated Capital Expenditures table, are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below.

At the state level, no significant environmental legislation that would affect the Company's operations advanced during 2013. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be introduced or enacted in 2014, or if new regulations or changes to existing regulations at the state level will be implemented in the coming year. Several regulatory initiatives at the federal level did advance in 2013 and more are expected to advance in 2014 as described below.

Air Quality

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving other potential physical impacts. Other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also materialize. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive.

As part of the President's Climate Action Plan and by Presidential Memorandum issued June 25, 2013, the EPA was directed to issue a revised carbon standard for new power plants by re-proposing NSPS under the CAA for emissions of carbon dioxide from newly constructed fossil fuel-fired units. The rule became final on January 8, 2014 and requires all new fossil fuel-fired power plants to meet the carbon dioxide emissions profile of a combined cycle natural gas plant. While most new natural gas plants will not be required to include any new technologies, no new coal-fired plants could be constructed without carbon capture and sequestration capabilities. The Company is evaluating the final rule, but does not plan to construct new coal-fired units in the near future. The Memorandum also directed the EPA to issue standards, regulations, or guidelines for existing units by June 1, 2014, to be made final no later than June 1, 2015. The Company also cannot predict when rules will become final for existing units, if at all, or what conditions they may impose on the Company, if any. The Company expects that any costs incurred to comply with GHG emission requirements will be recoverable through rates.

From a regulatory perspective, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO continually monitor and evaluate their current and projected emission levels and strive to comply with all state and federal regulations regarding those emissions. SCE&G and GENCO participate in the sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowance programs with respect to coal plant emissions and also have constructed additional pollution control equipment at several larger coal-fired electric generating plants. Further, 

38

SCE&G is engaged in construction activities of the New Units which are expected to reduce GHG emission levels significantly once they are completed and dispatched by potentially displacing some of the current coal-fired generation sources. These actions are expected to address many of the rules and regulations discussed herein.

In 2005, the EPA issued the CAIR, which required the District of Columbia and 28 states to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in order to attain mandated state levels. CAIR set emission limits to be met in two phases beginning in 2009 and 2015, respectively, for nitrogen oxide and beginning in 2010 and 2015, respectively, for sulfur dioxide. SCE&G and GENCO determined that additional air quality controls would be needed to meet the CAIR requirements. On July 6, 2011 the EPA issued the CSAPR. This rule replaced CAIR and the Clean Air Transport Rule proposed in July 2010 and is aimed at addressing power plant emissions that may contribute to air pollution in other states. CSAPR requires states in the eastern United States to reduce power plant emissions, specifically sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. On December 30, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued an order staying CSAPR and reinstating CAIR pending resolution of an appeal of CSAPR. On August 21, 2012, the Court of Appeals vacated CSAPR and left CAIR in place. The EPA's petition for rehearing of the Court of Appeals' order was denied. In June 2013 the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the Court of Appeals' decision and oral arguments were held on December 10, 2013. A decision is still pending. Air quality control installations that SCE&G and GENCO have already completed have allowed the Company to comply with the reinstated CAIR and will also allow it to comply with CSAPR, if reinstated. The Company will continue to pursue strategies to comply with all applicable environmental regulations. Any costs incurred to comply with such regulations are expected to be recoverable through rates.

In April 2012, the EPA's rule containing new standards for mercury and other specified air pollutants became effective. The rule provides up to four years for facilities to meet the standards, and the Company's evaluation of the rule is ongoing. The Company's decision in 2012 to retire certain coal-fired units or convert them to burn natural gas and its project to build the New Units (see Note 1) along with other actions are expected to result in the Company's compliance with the EPA's rule. Any costs incurred to comply with this rule or other rules issued by the EPA in the future are expected to be recoverable through rates.

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the NSR provisions and the NSPS of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the DOJ, on behalf of the EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis for these actions is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. Though the Company cannot predict what action, if any, the EPA will initiate against it, any costs incurred are expected to be recoverable through rates.

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include the impact of possible changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and the resultant potential damage to the Company's electric system, as well as impacts on employees and customers and on the Company's supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties. In addition, SCE&G has collected funds from customers for its storm damage reserve (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams who receive ongoing training and related simulations in advance of such storms, all in order to allow the Company to protect its assets and to return its systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event.

Water Quality

The CWA provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under state-issued NPDES permits. As a facility’s NPDES permit is renewed (every five years), any new effluent limitations would be incorporated. The ELG Rule was published in the Federal Register on June 7, 2013, and is expected to be finalized May 22, 2014. The EPA expects compliance as soon as possible after July 2017 but no later than July 2020. 

Additionally, the EPA is expected to issue a rule that modifies requirements for existing cooling water intake structures in early 2014, The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the CWA. Such legislation may include toxicity-based standards as well as limitations to mixing zones. These provisions, if passed, could have a material impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

39

Hazardous and Solid Wastes

In response to a federal court order to establish a definite timeline for a CCR rule, the EPA has said it will issue new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCRs, such as ash, by December 2014. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCRs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. While the Company cannot predict how extensive the regulations will be, the Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

The final CCR rule may require the closure of ash ponds. SCE&G has three generating facilities that have employed ash storage ponds, and all of these ponds have either been closed after all ash was removed or are part of an ash pond closure project that includes complete removal of the ash prior to closure. The electric generating facilities which continue to be coal-fired have dry ash handling, and the ash ponds undergoing closure have a detailed dam safety inspection conducted at least quarterly. 

The Nuclear Waste Act required that the United States government accept and permanently dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. The Nuclear Waste Act also imposed on utilities the primary responsibility for storage of their spent nuclear fuel until the repository is available. SCE&G entered into a Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste with the DOE in 1983. As of December 31, 2013, the federal government has not accepted any spent fuel from Summer Station Unit 1, and it remains unclear when the repository may become available. SCE&G has on-site spent nuclear fuel storage capability in its existing fuel pool until at least 2017, and has commenced construction of a dry cask storage facility to accommodate the spent nuclear fuel output for the life of Summer Station Unit 1. SCE&G may evaluate other technology as it becomes available.

The provisions of CERCLA authorize the EPA to require the clean-up of hazardous waste sites. In addition, the states of South Carolina and North Carolina have similar laws. The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. In addition, regulators from the EPA and other federal or state agencies periodically notify the Company that it may be required to perform or participate in the investigation and remediation of a hazardous waste site. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures may differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Such amounts are recorded in regulatory assets and amortized, with recovery provided through rates. The Company has assessed the following matters:

Electric Operations

SCE&G maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate its current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Amounts expected to be recovered through rates are recorded in regulatory assets and, if applicable, amortized over approved amortization periods. At December 31, 2013, such regulatory assets totaled approximately $1.2 million. Other environmental costs are recorded to expense as incurred. 

Gas Distribution

SCE&G is responsible for four decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by-product chemicals. These sites are in various stages of investigation, remediation and monitoring under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities at these sites will continue until 2017 and will cost an additional $20.2 million. SCE&G expects to recover any cost arising from the remediation of MGP sites through rates. At December 31, 2013, deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $36.7 million and are included in regulatory assets.

PSNC Energy is responsible for environmental clean-up at five sites in North Carolina on which MGP residuals are present or suspected. PSNC Energy's actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third-party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of approximately $2.8 million, the estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2013. PSNC Energy expects to recover through rates any cost allocable to PSNC Energy arising from the remediation of these sites.

40

REGULATORY MATTERS

SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the following entities for the matters noted.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Material retail rate proceedings are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the RSA allows natural gas distribution companies in South Carolina to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations.

Utility Regulation

SCANA’s regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, in the event of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities, and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material effect on the 

41

results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Operations and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities, including those associated with the Company’s environmental program.

The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs would be necessary and, if they were, the extent to which they would affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively.

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers for which they have not yet been billed. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $183.1 million at December 31, 2013 and $189.8 million at December 31, 2012, compared to total revenues of $4.5 billion and $4.2 billion for the years 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Nuclear Decommissioning

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years into the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers).

Based on a decommissioning cost study, SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station Unit 1, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $696.8 million, stated in 2012 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station Unit 1. The cost estimate assumes that upon closure the site would be maintained for 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use.

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds and interest thereon, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after-tax basis.

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Company accrues for the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from their acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The obligations are recognized at present value in the period in which they are incurred, and associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as a part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, their recognition has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company has recorded AROs of $191 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and AROs of $385 million for other conditional obligations primarily related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts recorded in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments may be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the utilities remains in place.

42

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability and changes in funded status as a component of net periodic benefit cost or other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. The Company’s plan is adequately funded under current regulations. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which has an impact on the resulting pension cost recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and expected returns on assets. Net pension cost of $31.7 million recorded in 2013 reflects the use of a 4.10% discount rate prior to re-measurement on September 1, 2013 and a 5.07% discount rate after re-measurement, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 8.0% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The re-measurement occurred in connection with a plan amendment and related curtailment, which is further described below. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension cost amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate in 2013 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.2 million. Further, had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 7.75%, the Company’s pension cost for 2013 would have increased by $1.9 million.

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted.

The Company determines the fair value of a large majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes or derives them from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. Less than 10% of assets are valued using less transparent Level 3 methods.

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2013, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 7.5%, 6.3%, 8.8% and 9.7%, respectively. The 2013 expected long-term rate of return of 8.00% was based on a target asset allocation of 58% with equity managers, 33% with fixed income managers and 9% with hedge fund managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. As of the beginning of 2014, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 6.4%, 6.0%, 8.3% and 9.3%, respectively. For 2014, the expected rate of return is 8.00%.

As of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, approximately $5.5 million, $14.9 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of pension expense was deferred pursuant to regulatory orders. As part of a December 2012 SCPSC rate order, cumulative previously deferred pension costs related to electric operations of approximately $63 million is being amortized over approximately 30 years, and starting in January 2013 current pension expense for electric operations is being recovered through a pension cost rider. Similarly, in connection with the October 2013 RSA order, previously deferred pension cost related to gas operations of approximately $14 million is being amortized over approximately 14 years, and effective November 2013, SCE&G is recovering current pension expense related to gas operations through cost of service rates.

In the third quarter of 2013, the pension plan was amended such that pension benefits will no longer be offered to employees hired or rehired after December 31, 2013, and pension benefits for existing participants will no longer accrue for services performed or compensation earned after December 31, 2023. As a result, the Company recorded a curtailment charge due to the accelerated amortization of prior service cost. Approximately $6.5 million of the curtailment charge was applicable to regulated operations and was deferred within regulatory assets. The Company is recovering such deferred amounts through existing regulatory orders. 

The closure of the plan to entrants after December 31, 2013 and the cessation of benefit accruals in 2023 are expected to further lessen the significance of pension costs and the criticality of the related estimates to the Company's financial statements. Further, the pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and management does not anticipate the need to make significant pension contributions for the foreseeable future.

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plans in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 4.19%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost of $21.3 million for 2013. Had the selected discount rate been 3.94% (25 basis points lower than the discount rate referenced above), the expense for 2013 would have been $0.6 million higher. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, and because employees hired after December 31, 2010 are responsible for the full cost of retiree medical benefits elected by them, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

43

NEW NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION MATTERS

SCE&G is constructing two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear generation units at the site of Summer Station. SCE&G will jointly own the New Units with Santee Cooper, and SCE&G will be responsible for the cost of and receive the output from the New Units in proportion to its share of ownership, with Santee Cooper responsible for and receiving the remaining share. SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%. Under an agreement signed in January 2014 (and subject to customary closing conditions, including necessary regulatory approvals), SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units. Under the terms of this agreement, SCE&G will acquire a one percent ownership interest in the New Units at the commercial operation date of Unit 2, will acquire an additional two percent ownership interest no later than the first anniversary of such commercial operation date, and will acquire the final two percent no later than the second anniversary of such commercial operation date. In addition, the agreement provides that Santee Cooper will not transfer any of its remaining interest in the New Units to third parties until the New Units are complete.

It is expected that Unit 2 will be placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018, with Unit 3's in-service date approximately 12 months later. SCE&G's share of the estimated cash outlays (future value, excluding AFC) for its current 55% ownership share totals approximately $5.4 billion for plant and related transmission infrastructure costs, which costs are projected based on historical one-year and five-year escalation rates as required by the SCPSC. In addition, under the terms of the agreement previously described, SCE&G has agreed to pay an amount equal to Santee Cooper's actual cost of the percentage conveyed as of the date of conveyance, which SCE&G estimates will be approximately $500 million for the entire 5% interest. This transaction will not affect the payment obligations between the parties during construction for the New Units, nor is it anticipated that the payments would be reflected in revised rates filings under the BLRA.

In November 2012, the SCPSC approved an updated construction schedule and additional updated capital costs of $278 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars). The November 2012 order approved additional identifiable capital costs of approximately $1 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to new federal healthcare laws, information security measures, and certain minor design modifications; approximately $8 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to transmission infrastructure; and approximately $132 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to additional labor for the oversight of the New Units during construction and for preparing to operate the New Units, and facilities and information technology systems required to support the New Units and their personnel. In addition, the order approved revised substantial completion dates for the New Units based on the March 30, 2012 issuance of the COL and the amounts agreed upon by SCE&G and the Consortium in July 2012 to resolve claims for costs related to COL delays, design modifications of the shield building and certain pre-fabricated structural modules for the New Units and unanticipated rock conditions at the site. Thereafter, two parties filed separate petitions requesting that the SCPSC reconsider its November 2012 order. On December 12, 2012, the SCPSC denied both petitions. In March 2013, both parties appealed the SCPSC's order to the South Carolina Supreme Court. SCE&G is unable to predict the outcome of these appeals. 

 The Consortium has experienced delays in the schedule for fabrication and delivery of sub-modules for the New Units. The fabrication and delivery of sub-modules are a focus area of the Consortium, including sub-modules for module CA20, which is part of the auxiliary building, and CA01, which houses components inside the containment vessel. Modules CA20 and CA01 are considered critical path items for both New Units. All sub-modules for CA20 have been received on site and its fabrication is underway. CA20 is expected to be ready for placement on the nuclear island of the first New Unit in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, the delivery schedule of sub-modules for CA01 is expected to support completion of on-site fabrication to allow it to be ready for placement on the nuclear island of the first New Unit during the third quarter of 2014. With this schedule, the Consortium continues to indicate that the substantial completion of the first New Unit is expected to be late 2017 or the first quarter of 2018 and that the substantial completion of the second New Unit is expected to be approximately twelve months after that of the first New Unit. The substantial completion dates currently approved by the SCPSC for the first and second New Units are March 15, 2017 and May 15, 2018, respectively. The SCPSC has also approved an 18-month contingency period beyond each of these dates. The preliminary expected new substantial completion dates are within the contingency periods. SCE&G cannot predict with certainty the extent to which the issue with the sub-modules or the delays in the substantial completion of the New Units will result in increased project costs. However, the preliminary estimate of the delay-related costs associated with SCE&G's 55% share of the New Units is approximately $200 million. SCE&G has not accepted responsibility for any of these delay-related costs and expects to have further discussions with the Consortium regarding such responsibility. Additionally, the EPC Contract provides for liquidated damages in the event of a delay in the completion of the New Units, which will also be included in discussions with the Consortium. SCE&G believes its responsibility for any portion of the $200 million estimate should ultimately be substantially less, once all of the relevant factors are considered.

In addition to the above-described project delays, SCE&G is also aware of financial difficulties at a supplier responsible for certain significant components of the project. The Consortium is monitoring the potential for disruptions in 

44

such equipment fabrication and possible responses. Any disruptions could impact the project's schedule or costs, and such impacts could be material.

The parties to the EPC Contract have established both informal and formal dispute resolution procedures in order to resolve issues that arise during the course of constructing a project of this magnitude. During the course of activities under the EPC Contract, issues have materialized that impact project budget and schedule. Claims specifically relating to COL delays,

design modifications of the shield building and certain pre-fabricated modules for the New Units and unanticipated rock

conditions at the site resulted in assertions of contractual entitlement to recover additional costs to be incurred. The resolution

of these specific claims is discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. SCE&G expects to resolve any disputes that arise in the future, including any which may arise with respect to the delay-related costs discussed above, through both the informal and formal procedures and anticipates that any additional costs that arise through such dispute resolution processes, as well as other costs identified from time to time, will be recoverable through rates.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Consortium began a full re-baselining of the Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules to incorporate a more detailed evaluation of the engineering and procurement activities necessary to accomplish the schedule and to provide a detailed reassessment of the impact of the revised Unit 2 and Unit 3 schedules on engineering and design resource allocations, procurement schedules, construction work crew assignments, and other items. The result will be a revised fully integrated construction schedule that will provide for detailed and itemized information on individual budget and cost categories, cost estimates at completion for all non-firm and fixed scopes of work, and the timing of specific construction activities and cash flow requirements. SCE&G anticipates that this revised schedule and the cost estimate at completion for all non-firm and fixed scopes of work will be finalized in the third quarter of 2014. SCE&G plans to reevaluate and reschedule its owners cost estimates and cash flow requirements in light of the new schedule.

When the NRC issued the COLs for the New Units, two of the conditions that it imposed were requiring inspection and testing of certain components of the New Units' passive cooling system, and requiring the development of strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at the New Units. In addition, the NRC directed the Office of New Reactors to issue to SCE&G an order requiring enhanced, reliable spent fuel pool instrumentation, as well as a request for information related to emergency plant staffing. These conditions and requirements are responsive to the NRC's Near-Term Task Force report titled “Recommendations for Enhancing Reactor Safety in the 21st Century.” This report was prepared in the wake of the March 2011 earthquake-generated tsunami, which severely damaged several nuclear generating units and their back-up cooling systems in Japan. SCE&G continues to evaluate the impact of these conditions and requirements that may be imposed on the construction and operation of the New Units, and SCE&G, pursuant to the license condition, prepared and submitted an integrated response plan for the New Units to the NRC in August 2013. SCE&G cannot predict what additional regulatory or other outcomes may be implemented in the United States, or how such initiatives would impact SCE&G's existing Summer Station or the construction or operation of the New Units.

Subject to a national megawatt capacity limitation, the electricity to be produced by the New Units (advanced nuclear units, as defined) is expected to qualify for nuclear production tax credits under Section 45J of the Internal Revenue Code. Following the pouring of safety-related concrete for each of the New Units’ reactor buildings (March 2013 for the first New Unit and November 2013 for the second New Unit), SCE&G has applied to the IRS for its allocations of such national megawatt capacity limitation. The IRS will forward the applications to the DOE for appropriate certification. Under current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and based on SCE&G's current 55% ownership and other assumptions regarding volumes of electricity to be generated by the New Units, the aggregate production tax credits for which SCE&G qualifies could exceed $1.3 billion over the eight year period following each of the New Units' in-service dates. In January 2014, SCE&G amended its application to include the additional 5% interest in the New Units that it expects to acquire. Additional production tax credits related to the 5% interest could total as much as $125 million.

OTHER MATTERS

Financial Regulatory Reform

Dodd-Frank provides for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and requires numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement. The Company has determined that it meets the end-user exception in Dodd-Frank, with the lowest level of required regulatory reporting burden imposed by this law. The Company is currently complying with these enacted regulations and intends to comply with regulations enacted in the future, but cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

45

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions

Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold significant investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities. SCANA does not engage in off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, vehicles, equipment and rail cars.

Claims and Litigation

For a description of claims and litigation see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK