PART I

Item 1. Business

Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) is an insurance holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1979. Its primary subsidiaries are American Income Life Insurance Company (American Income), Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Liberty National), Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company (Globe), United American Insurance Company (United American), and Family Heritage Life Insurance Company of America (Family Heritage).

Torchmark’s website is: www.torchmarkcorp.com. Torchmark makes available free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other information included in Torchmark's website is not incorporated into this filing.

The following table presents Torchmark’s business by primary marketing distribution method. 

Primary

Distribution Method Company Products and Target Markets Distribution

American Income Exclusive Agency 

American Income Life Insurance Company

Waco, Texas Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to working families. 6,880 producing agents in the U.S., Canada, and New Zealand.

Globe Life Direct Response 

Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company

McKinney, Texas Individual life and supplemental health insurance including juvenile and senior life coverage and Medicare Supplement to middle-income Americans. 

Nationwide distribution through direct-to-consumer channels; including direct mail, electronic media and insert media.

Family Heritage Exclusive Agency 

Family Heritage Life Insurance Company of America

Cleveland, Ohio Supplemental limited-benefit health insurance to middle-income families. 1,076 producing agents in the U.S.

Liberty National Exclusive Agency 

Liberty National Life Insurance Company

McKinney, Texas Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to middle-income families. 2,106 producing agents in the U.S.

United American Independent Agency 

United American

Insurance Company

McKinney, Texas Medicare Supplement coverage to Medicare beneficiaries and, to a lesser extent, supplemental limited-benefit health coverage to people under age 65. 4,192 independent producing agents in the U.S.

Additional information concerning industry segments may be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in Note 14—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

1

TMK 2017 FORM 10-K
Insurance

Life Insurance

Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries write a variety of nonparticipating ordinary life insurance products. These include traditional and interest sensitive whole-life insurance, term life insurance, and other life insurance. The following table presents selected information about Torchmark’s life products.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The distribution methods for life insurance products include direct response, exclusive agents and independent agents. These methods are described in more depth in the Distribution Method chart earlier in this report. The following table presents life annualized premium in force by distribution method.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Health Insurance

Torchmark offers Medicare Supplement and limited-benefit supplemental health insurance products that include primarily critical illness and accident plans. These policies are designed to supplement health coverage that applicants already own. Medicare Supplements are offered to enrollees in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. Medicare Supplement plans are standardized by federal regulation and are designed to pay deductibles and co-payments not paid by Medicare. 

On July 1, 2016, Torchmark sold its Medicare Part D business to an unaffiliated third party. Torchmark decided to exit its Medicare Part D business due to increasing risks, declining margins, higher drug costs, and increased administrative and compliance costs. Management believes this sale allows the Company to better focus on its core protection life and health insurance businesses. As the historical results for the Medicare Part D business are accounted for as discontinued operations, all business results and relevant forward looking statements of the Company are reported as continuing operations, excluding the Medicare Part D business. For further discussion of the disposition of the Medicare Part D business, see Note 6—Discontinued Operations.

2

TMK 2017 FORM 10-K
The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium in force information for the three years ended December 31, 2017 by product category.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium in force for the three years ended December 31, 2017 by distribution method.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Annuities

Annuity products include single-premium and flexible-premium deferred annuities. Annuities in each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 comprised less than 1% of premium.

Pricing

Premium rates for life and health insurance products are established using assumptions as to future mortality, morbidity, persistency, investment income, expenses, and target profit margins. These assumptions are based on Company experience and projected investment earnings. Revenues for individual life and health insurance products are primarily derived from premium income, and, to a lesser extent, through policy charges to the policyholder account values on annuity products and certain individual life products. Profitability is affected to the extent actual experience deviates from the assumptions made in pricing and to the extent investment income varies from that required for policy reserves.

Collections for annuity products and certain life products are not recognized as revenues, but are added to policyholder account values. Revenues from these products are derived from charges to the account balances for insurance risk and administrative costs. Profits are earned to the extent these revenues exceed actual costs. Profits are also earned from investment income in excess of the amounts credited to policyholder accounts.

Underwriting

The underwriting standards of each Torchmark insurance subsidiary are established by management. Each subsidiary uses information from the application and, in some cases, telephone interviews with applicants, inspection reports, pharmacy data, doctors’ statements and/or medical examinations to determine whether a policy should be issued in accordance with the application, with a different rating, with a rider, with reduced coverage or rejected.

3

TMK 2017 FORM 10-K
Reserves

The life insurance policy reserves reflected in Torchmark’s financial statements as future policy benefits are calculated based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These reserves, with premiums to be received in the future and the interest thereon compounded annually at assumed rates, must be sufficient to cover policy and contract obligations as they mature. Generally, the mortality and persistency assumptions used in the calculations of reserves are based on Company experience. Similar reserves are held on most of the health policies written by Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries, since these policies generally are issued on a guaranteed-renewable basis. The assumptions used in the calculation of Torchmark’s reserves are reported in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies. Reserves for annuity products and certain life products consist of the policyholders’ account values and are increased by policyholder deposits and interest credited and are decreased by policy charges and benefit payments.

Investments

The nature, quality, and percentage mix of insurance company investments are regulated by state laws. The investments of Torchmark insurance subsidiaries consist predominantly of high-quality, investment-grade securities. Approximately 96% of our invested assets at fair value are fixed maturities at December 31, 2017. (See Note 4—Investments and Management’s Discussion and Analysis.)

Competition

Torchmark competes with other insurance carriers through policyholder service, price, product design, and sales efforts. While there are insurance companies competing with Torchmark, no individual company dominates any of Torchmark’s life or health markets.

Torchmark’s health insurance products compete with, in addition to the products of other health insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, and other health care-related institutions which provide medical benefits based on contractual agreements.

Management believes Torchmark companies operate at lower policy acquisition and administrative expense levels than peer companies. This allows Torchmark to have competitive rates while maintaining higher underwriting margins.

Regulation

Insurance. Insurance companies are subject to regulation and supervision in the states in which they do business. The laws of the various states establish agencies with broad administrative and supervisory powers which include, among other things, granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, approving policy forms, approving certain premium rates, setting minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements, determining the form and content of required financial statements, and prescribing the type and amount of investments permitted. They are also required to file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the rules of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), insurance companies are examined periodically by one or more of the supervisory agencies.

Risk Based Capital. The NAIC requires that a risk based capital formula be applied to all life and health insurers. The risk based capital formula is a threshold formula rather than a target capital formula. It is designed only to identify companies that require regulatory attention and is not to be used to rate or rank companies that are adequately capitalized. All Torchmark insurance subsidiaries are more than adequately capitalized under the risk based capital formula.

Guaranty Assessments. State guaranty laws provide for assessments from insurance companies to be placed into a fund which is used, in the event of failure or insolvency of an insurance company, to fulfill the obligations of that company to its policyholders. The amount which a company is assessed is based on its proportional share of the premium in each state. A significant portion of assessments are recoverable as offsets against state premium taxes. (See Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies for current assessment.)

Holding Company. States have enacted legislation requiring registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies domiciled within their respective jurisdictions that control or are controlled by other corporations so as to 

4

TMK 2017 FORM 10-K
constitute a holding company system. Torchmark and its subsidiaries have registered as a holding company system pursuant to such legislation in Indiana, Nebraska, Ohio, and New York.

Insurance holding company system statutes and regulations impose various limitations on investments in subsidiaries, and may require prior regulatory approval for material transactions between insurers and affiliates and for the payment of certain dividends and other distributions.

Personnel

At the end of 2017, Torchmark had 3,102 employees.

5

TMK 2017 FORM 10-K
Item 1A. Risk Factors