ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. The risks and uncertainties our Company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  

In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 

If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline.  

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses.  

Each of our networks provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent upon acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time. Audience preferences change frequently, and it is a challenge to anticipate what content will be successful at any point. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content and services. If our networks do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, revenues may decline and adversely affect our profitability.  

If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements with cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers (“Distributors”) at acceptable rates and terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.  

We enter into multi-year contracts for our national television networks with Distributors. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of cable households across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms or at rates similar to those in other affiliate contracts, we may lose distribution rights and/or affiliate fee revenues.  

These distribution agreements may also include “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses. Such clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another Distributor on more favorable terms, those terms must be offered to the Distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The MFN clauses within our distribution agreements are generally complex. Parties may interpret them differently and reach a 

9  

Table of Contents 

 conflicting view of compliance of that held by the Company, which, if proven correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  

The loss of a significant affiliate arrangement on basic programming tiers could reduce distribution of our networks, thereby adversely affecting affiliate fee revenue, subjecting certain of our intangible assets to possible impairments and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising or the rates we charge for such advertising.  

Three of our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the willingness of consumers to pay for such tiers, as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers.  

Further consolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition of our businesses. Consolidation among Distributors has given the largest cable and satellite television systems considerable leverage in their relationship with programmers. The two largest cable television system operators provide service to approximately 35 percent of households receiving cable or satellite television service today, while the two largest satellite television operators provide service to an additional 34 percent of such households.  

Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of Distributors available to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  

Our networks face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers. Failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of our networks.  

We face substantial competition from alternative providers of similar services. Our national television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and national television networks and with home 

 video products and internet usage, as well as with other programming providers for carriage of programming. Additionally, our national television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives, including other broadcast and national television networks, the internet, newspapers, radio stations and print media. Our websites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and, therefore, must provide popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Competition may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our networks.  

Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our networks.  

We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, and devices, such as tablets and mobile, providing consumers the ability to view content from remote locations and enabling general preferences for user-generated and interactive content. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content allow us to reach our target audiences, there could be a negative effect on our business.  

Our lifestyle media business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations, which could result in reduced distribution of certain of our national television networks.  

Our programming services and the distributors of our programming, including cable and satellite operators, telecommunication providers and internet companies, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the 

10  

Table of Contents 

 future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis, which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of channels, and/or require programmers to sell channels to Distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other Distributors have already introduced tiers, or more targeted channel packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of programming could reduce distribution of certain of our networks, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses and affect our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars or distribution fees.  

Changes in economic conditions in the United States, the regional economies in which we operate or in specific industry sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.  

Approximately 70 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2014 were derived from marketing and advertising spending by businesses operating in the United States. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions and tends to decline in recessionary periods. An economic decline could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues.  

The loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.  

Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected. 

The financial performance of our equity method investments could adversely impact our results of operations.  

We have investments in businesses that we account for under the equity method of accounting. We do not control the day to day operations of our equity method investments, and thus the management of these businesses by our partners could impact their performance. Additionally, these businesses are subject to laws, regulations or market conditions, or have risks inherent in their operations, similar to the businesses we operate. Any of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment.  

We are subject to risks related to our international operations.  

We have operations and investments in a number of foreign jurisdictions. The inherent economic risks of doing business in international markets include, among other things, changes in the economic environment, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers, foreign taxation, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. Additionally, the local currencies in which our international operations conduct their business could change in value relative to the U.S. dollar, exposing our results to exchange rate fluctuations.  

We may not be able to protect IP rights upon which our business relies. If we lose IP protection, we may lose valuable assets.  

Our business depends on our IP. We attempt to protect these IP rights through a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark law and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We also depend on our trade names and domain names. We file applications for patents, trademarks and other IP registrations, but we may not be granted such IP protections. In addition, even if such registrations are issued, they may not fully protect all important aspects of our business, and there is no guarantee that our business does not, or will not, infringe upon IP rights of others. Furthermore, IP laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect and enforce our IP rights in some foreign jurisdictions. In the future, we may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere to enforce our IP rights or determine the 

11  

Table of Contents 

 validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could potentially be expensive and possibly divert the attention of our management. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our service, technology and other IP, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce our IP rights, then we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer.  

We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses  

Our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users’ proprietary information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming. Although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users’ proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. 

We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party IP rights, which could harm our business.  

From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark or other IP rights to technologies that are important to our business. We may be subject to IP infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business for a period of time. In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain IP rights, our revenue could be negatively impacted.  

If we are unable to successfully integrate key acquisitions our business results could be negatively impacted.  

We may grow through acquisitions in certain markets. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations, diversions of management resources, debt incurred in financing such acquisitions and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, the integration and operations of an acquired business could be adversely impacted. Similarly, declines in business performance and the related effect on the fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets could trigger impairment charges, which could materially affect our reported net earnings.  

Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments.  

The ongoing changes in U.S. and global credit and equity markets may make it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage 

12  

Table of Contents 

 ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing.  

The concentrated ownership of our Common Voting Shares limits the ability of the holders of our Class A Common Shares to influence corporate matters.  

We have two classes of shares: Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. Holders of Class A Common Shares are entitled to elect one-third of the Board of Directors (the “Board”), but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting Shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Approximately 92 percent of the Common Voting Shares are subject to the Scripps Family Agreement. The provisions of the Scripps Family Agreement fully govern the transfer and voting of Common Voting Shares subject to the agreement. As a result, the holders of the Common Voting Shares subject to the Scripps Family agreement have the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common Shares. This concentrated control limits the ability of our Class A Common shareholders to influence corporate matters and could potentially enable the Company to take actions that these shareholders would not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could be adversely affected.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES