PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

BUSINESS OVERVIEW  

SNI is one of the leading developers of lifestyle-oriented content for linear and interactive video platforms including television and the internet, with respected, high-profile brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly useful content that focuses on specifically defined topics of interest.  

We manage our operations through our reportable segment, lifestyle media. Lifestyle media includes our six national television networks, HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Lifestyle media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other internet-based businesses serving home, food and travel related categories.  

We also have established lifestyle media brands internationally. Our lifestyle-oriented channels are available in the United Kingdom (“UK”), other European markets, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia-Pacific (“APAC”) and Latin America. The results for our international businesses are not separately identified as a reportable segment and are included within our corporate and other segment caption.  

Our businesses earn revenue from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including the sale and licensing of content and consumer products. Programming expenses, employee costs and sales and marketing expenses are our primary operating costs.  

We seek to engage audiences that are highly desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the internet and any other media platforms consumers choose. We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands through creating popular new programming and content, distributing on various platforms, such as mobile phones, tablets and video-on-demand, licensing of content and branded consumer products and increasing our international footprint. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

Lifestyle Media  

Our lifestyle media segment includes our six national television networks and our portfolio of related interactive lifestyle brands. The segment generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising time on national television networks and interactive media platforms and from affiliate fees paid by service providers that distribute our programming content. In 2014, revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees approximated 69 percent and 29 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the lifestyle media segment. Our lifestyle media segment also earns revenue from the licensing of content to third parties and brands for consumer products, such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools.  

Advertising revenue generated by our national television networks depends on viewership ratings, as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies, and advertising rates paid by advertisers for delivery of advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters and can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programs, blocks of programming during defined periods of the day and seasonal demand of advertisers. Revenues from affiliates are negotiated with individual multichannel service providers. The negotiations typically result in multi-year carriage agreements that contain scheduled rate increases. The affiliate fees we receive are determined by the number of subscribers with access to the programming of our various networks.  

Programming expenses, employee costs and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our lifestyle media segment. Program amortization represented 46 percent of lifestyle media expenses in 2014, reflecting our continued investment in the improved quality and variety of programming on our networks. We incur sales and marketing expenses to support brand-building initiatives at all of our television networks. 

4  

Table of Contents 

Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media that is intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of home, food, travel and lifestyle content. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived primarily from the sale of display, banner and video advertising.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including, but not limited to, our six network-branded websites, HGTV.com, Foodnetwork.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as home websites for the television programming networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their respective lifestyle content categories. The Company also operates uLive.com, a digital platform launched in 2013 that distributes video programming and expands our lifestyle content into new categories, such as parenting, beauty and wellness. uLive.com presents both original video, as well as content aggregated from numerous partners, and generates revenue by delivering advertising to users of the site. All of the interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming, of which approximately 94 percent on a dollar basis, is owned by us. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on the internet and other interactive distribution channels, including video-on-demand and streaming services.  

The lifestyle websites accounted for about 5 percent of the lifestyle media segment’s total revenue in 2014. The strategic focus of the lifestyle interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and additional video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through placing our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms.  

We also have 50 percent ownership interests in HGTV Magazine JV and Food Network Magazine JV and a 7.25 percent ownership interest in Fox-BRV 

 Southern Sports Holdings LLC, which comprises the Sports South and Fox Sports Net South regional television networks.  

HGTV  

HGTV reaches approximately 96 million domestic television households and is simulcast in high definition (“HD”). HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics. HGTV is television’s only network dedicated solely to such topics as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on HGTV includes House Hunters, House Hunters International, Rehab Addict, Fixer Upper, The Property Brothers and Flip or Flop. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Smart Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway and annual live coverage of the Tournament of Roses Parade. Many of the programs on HGTV feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Drew and Jonathan Scott; Nicole Curtis; Chip and Joanna Gaines; Tarek and Christina El Moussa and cousins Anthony Carrino and John Colaneri.  

Food Network  

Food Network is available in approximately 97 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own approximately 69 percent of the Food Network, and we are the managing partner. The Tribune Media Company (“Tribune”) has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 31 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range. 

5  

Table of Contents 

Programming on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, Chopped, Cutthroat Kitchen, Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, Food Network Star; Guy’s Grocery Games and Restaurant Impossible, as well as daytime series Giada at Home, The Kitchen, Pioneer Woman and Trisha’s Southern Kitchen. Food Network hosts include high-profile television personalities such as Anne Burrell, Alex Guarnaschelli, Alton Brown, Bobby Flay, Giada De Laurentiis, Guy Fieri, Rachael Ray, Ree Drummond, Robert Irvine and Trisha Yearwood.  

Travel Channel  

Travel Channel is available in about 92 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 65 percent of the Travel Channel. Cox Communications, Inc. has a noncontrolling interest of 35 percent in Travel Channel.  

Travel Channel programming content attracts travel enthusiasts and is a leading travel multi-media brand offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information. Travel Channel programming appeals to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range.  

Programming on Travel Channel includes Hotel Impossible, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizarre Foods, Trip Flip, Booze Traveler, Expedition Unknown and Ghost Adventures. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Samantha Brown, Don Wildman, Anthony Melchiorri, Bert Kreischer, Jack Maxwell, Josh Gates and Zak Bagans.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is available in approximately 58 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. DIY Network programming provides entertaining and informational content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement, crafts, gardening and landscaping. DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on DIY Networks includes Vanilla Ice Project, Vanilla Ice Goes Amish, 

 Sledgehammer and the Crashers series. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature, or are hosted by, television personalities such as Jason Cameron, Alison Victoria, Matt Muenster and Chris Lambton.  

Cooking Channel  

Cooking Channel is available in about 62 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own approximately 69 percent of this network, which represents a controlling interest. Tribune has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 31 percent in Cooking Channel.  

Cooking Channel programming caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking and delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids’ foods. The Cooking Channel appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on Cooking Channel includes Brunch @ Bobby’s, Emeril’s Florida, Extra Virgin, Man Fire Food, My Grandmother’s Ravioli and Rev Run’s Sunday Suppers. Cooking Channel hosts include notable television personalities such as Debi Mazar and Gabriele Corcos, Emeril Lagasse, Haylie Duff, Mo Rocca, Rev Run and Justine Simmons.  

Great American Country  

Great American Country reaches about 60 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. Great American Country provides its viewers with programming that celebrates the country lifestyle and includes the country music experience, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos.  

Content on Great American Country includes Farm Kings, Kimberly’s Simply Southern, Celebrity Motor Homes and the Top 20 Country Countdown.  

International  

As a producer of lifestyle content throughout the world, SNI is gaining scale through a concerted international growth strategy. As of December 31, 2014, the Company distributed six lifestyle brands via 20 unique distribution feeds, including HGTV, 

6  

Table of Contents 

 DIY Network, Food Network, Asian Food Channel (“AFC”), Fine Living, and Travel Channel, reaching over 130 million subscribers. Content is distributed in 29 languages with channel feeds customized according to language in more than 160 countries and territories across Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean.  

Internationally, we also have joint-venture partnerships with BBC Worldwide for UKTV and its suite of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle networks in the UK, and Shaw Media for HGTV, DIY Network and Food Network in Canada. Programming content is made available through licensing and distribution to more than 220 countries and territories around the world.  

In 2009, the Company launched its first international pay television channel through Food Network in the UK. The channel first launched on pay television, then expanded its distribution in 2011 to free-to-air on Freeview, initially in primetime and then as a full 24-hour broadcast channel in 2012. Currently, Food Network is the top lifestyle channel and the third most viewed non-scripted factual channel in the UK. Food Network is also available across EMEA, APAC and Latin America, where it most recently launched in Brazil.  

In 2013, the Company acquired AFC, a complementary channel brand to Food Network, in Asia. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 8 million subscribers in 11 markets.  

Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired in 2012 along with its base of operations in London. TCI is broadcast in 21 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout EMEA and APAC. In 2013, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK.  

In early 2014, we launched the Fine Living Network in Italy on the digital terrestrial television. Since its launch, over 40 percent of Italy’s television population has tuned into the channel. In late 2014, we launched HGTV in Singapore, which is the first channel dedicated to the home and lifestyle category across Asia Pacific.  

Our international businesses earn revenues from advertising sales, affiliate fees and the licensing of 

 programming to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expenses, employee costs and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our international businesses.   

Competition  

Cable, satellite and telecommunications network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our television networks and websites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our television networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, streaming services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Additionally, our networks compete with other television networks for affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television and satellite operators, telecommunication service providers and other distributors.  

Intellectual Property  

Our intellectual property (“IP”) assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties. To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory and contractual legal protections. There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective IP protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related IP is difficult and costly. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our IP from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of IP rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues. 

7  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Matters  

The Company is subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies, such as the European Union (the “EU”). These laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television and satellite operators and telecommunication providers, which could affect our networks indirectly.  

Closed Captioning  

All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning programming for the hearing impaired. The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the internet.  

CALM Act  

FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards. Our affiliation agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards.  

“Must-Carry” Requirements  

The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, programming television networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on these systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our television networks by these systems.  

Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications  

We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers. The operation of these websites and distribution of these apps are subject to a range of federal, state and local laws, such as privacy and consumer protection regulations. 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 2,100 full-time equivalent employees.  

Executive Officers of the Company  

Our executive officers as of February 27, 2015 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8  

Table of Contents 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS