Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

M&T and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, the Company has significant exposure to market risk, including interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, among others. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T’s common stock, in particular.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Weakness in the economy has adversely affected the Company and may continue to adversely affect the Company.  

From late-2007 through mid-2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Although there has been gradual improvement in the U.S. economy since then, economic growth has been slow and uneven. The housing market remains weak and unemployment levels are high. Local governments and some businesses are in financial difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A slowing of improvement or a return to deteriorating business and economic conditions could have one or more of the following adverse effects on the Company’s business:  

   —    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company.  

   —    A decrease in net interest income derived from the Company’s lending and deposit gathering activities.  

   —    A decrease in the value of the Company’s investment securities, loans held for sale or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate.  

   —    Other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio.  

   —    A decrease in fees from the Company’s brokerage and trust businesses associated with declines or lack of growth in stock market prices.  

   —    Potential higher FDIC assessments due to the DIF falling below minimum required levels.  

   —    An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill.  

   —    An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  

The Company’s business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which M&T has no control and which M&T may not be able to anticipate adequately.   

As a result of the high percentage of the Company’s assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates, can have a material effect on the Company’s business and profitability and the value of the Company’s assets and liabilities. For example:  

   —    Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that the Company earns on assets and the interest that the Company pays on liabilities, which impacts the Company’s overall net interest income and profitability.  

   —    Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments, and can, in turn, affect the Company’s loss rates on those assets.  

   —    Such changes may decrease the demand for interest rate based products and services, including loans and deposits.  

   —    Such changes can also affect the Company’s ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or protection or increase the risk or cost associated with such hedges.  

   —    Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in the impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing assets, reduce the value of loans held for sale and increase the volatility of mortgage banking revenues, potentially adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations.  

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as the Company. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that the Company charges on loans and that the Company pays on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of the Company’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Also, due to the impact on rates for short-term funding, the Federal Reserve’s policies also influence, to a significant extent, the Company’s cost of such funding. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to examinations from various governmental taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in challenges to the tax return treatment applied by the Company to specific transactions. Management believes that the assumptions and  

26  

Table of Contents 

 judgment used to record tax-related assets or liabilities have been appropriate. Should tax laws change or the tax authorities determine that management’s assumptions were inappropriate, the result and adjustments required could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. M&T cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on the Company’s business activities, financial condition and results of operations.  

The Company’s business and performance is vulnerable to the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets.  

As most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are financial in nature, the Company’s performance tends to be sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Turmoil and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets, such as that experienced during the recent financial crisis, can be a major contributory factor to overall weak economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed herein, including the impaired ability of borrowers and other counterparties to meet obligations to the Company. Financial market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on the Company and its business, including adversely affecting the Company’s financial condition and results of operations:  

   —    It can affect the value or liquidity of the Company’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments.  

   —    It can affect the value of capitalized servicing assets.  

   —    It can affect M&T’s ability to access capital markets to raise funds. Inability to access capital markets if needed, at cost effective rates, could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and results of operations.  

   —    It can affect the value of the assets that the Company manages or otherwise administers or services for others. Although the Company is not directly impacted by changes in the value of such assets, decreases in the value of those assets would affect related fee income and could result in decreased demand for the Company’s services.  

   —    In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which the Company engages.  

Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and may continue to be a significant contributor to overall volatility in financial markets.  

The Company’s regional concentrations expose it to adverse economic conditions in its primary retail banking office footprint.  

Although many of the Company’s businesses are national in scope, its core banking business is concentrated within the Company’s retail banking office network footprint, located principally in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Therefore, the Company is, or in the future may be, particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions.  

Risks Relating to the Regulatory Environment  

The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and this regulatory environment is being significantly impacted by the financial regulatory reform initiatives in the United States, including the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations.  

The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the financial system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The United States government and others have recently undertaken major reforms of the regulatory oversight structure of the financial services industry. M&T expects to face increased regulation of its industry as a result of current and possible future initiatives. M&T also expects more intense scrutiny in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels. Compliance with these new regulations and supervisory initiatives will likely increase the Company’s costs, reduce its revenue and may limit its ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Many parts of the Dodd-Frank Act are now in effect, while others depend on rules that are in an implementation stage likely to continue for several years. The law requires that regulators, some of which are new regulatory bodies created by the Dodd-Frank Act, draft, review and approve hundreds of implementing regulations and conduct numerous studies that are likely to lead to more regulations. As such, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company currently cannot be fully predicted. For more information about the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Recent Developments” under Part I, Item I “Business” and “Recent Legislative Developments” under Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Reforms, both under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise, will have a significant effect on the entire financial services industry. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects, M&T believes compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and other initiatives will likely negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit M&T’s ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require changes to the Company’s businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that the Company deals with in the course of its business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. Heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Capital requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, together with new capital and liquidity standards developed through the Basel Committee and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators, will result in banks and bank holding companies needing to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.  

New and evolving capital standards, both as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementation in the U.S. of new capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee, including the so-called “Basel III” capital accord, will have a significant effect on banks and bank holding companies, including M&T. Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies as proposed in a joint notice of proposed rulemaking in June 2012 and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. For additional information, see “Capital Requirements” under Part I, Item 1 “Business.” Because implementation of the new Basel III capital and liquidity standards in the U.S., as well as any additional heightened capital or liquidity standards that may be established by the Federal Reserve under the Dodd-Frank Act, remain subject to rulemaking in the U.S. and, in many cases, to extended observation and phase-in periods, the full effect of these standards on M&T’s regulatory capital is uncertain at this time.  

The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, going forward than historically has been required, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, could limit the Company’s business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. It could also result in M&T being required to take steps to increase its regulatory capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit its ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders, or sell or refrain from acquiring assets, the capital requirements for which are not justified by the assets’ underlying risks. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require the Company to increase its holdings of unencumbered highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing the Company’s ability to invest in longer-term assets even if deemed more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases, share repurchases and acquisitions.  

Risks Relating to the Company’s Business  

Deteriorating credit quality could adversely impact the Company.  

As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with the terms of the agreements, and that any collateral securing the loans may be insufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Factors that can influence the Company’s credit loss experience include: (i) the impact of residential real estate values on loans to residential real estate builders and developers and other loans secured by residential real estate; (ii) the concentrations of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio; (iii) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City metropolitan area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than many other regions of the country; (iv) the repayment performance associated with first and second lien loans secured by residential real estate; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than loans to other types of borrowers. In recent years, the Company has experienced historically high levels of nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs of residential real estate-related loans, including first and junior lien mortgage loans and loans to builders and developers of residential real estate. The Company has also experienced higher than historical levels of nonaccrual commercial real estate loans since 2009. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective, as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, governmental policy regarding housing and housing finance and general economic conditions affecting consumers.  

The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses which represents, in management’s judgment, the amount of losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. The allowance is determined by management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications. The effects of probable decreases in expected principal cash flows on acquired loans are also considered in the establishment of the allowance for credit losses.  

M&T believes that the allowance for credit losses appropriately reflects credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. However, there is no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to cover such credit losses, particularly if housing and employment conditions worsen or the economy experiences a downturn. In those cases, the Company may be required to increase the allowance through an increase in the provision for credit losses, which would reduce net income.  

The Company must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.  

The Company must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. The Company primarily relies on deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans it makes and the operations of its business. Core customer deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and time deposits of $250,000 or less, have historically provided the Company with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include borrowings from third party banks, securities dealers, various Federal Home Loan Banks and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  

The Company’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.  

Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in, or negative news about, the Company or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets; and downgrades in one or more of the Company’s credit ratings. A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings, which could result from general industry-wide or regulatory factors not solely related to the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise  

29  

Table of Contents 

 collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect M&T’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which M&T has little or no control. There can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future.  

If the Company is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access funding sources on favorable terms or if the Company suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, the Company’s liquidity, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.  

The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and profitability.  

The financial services industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. The Company competes not only with commercial and other banks and thrifts, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, securities brokerage firms and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the Internet. The Company competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments could result in the Company’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. The Company may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices or paying higher rates of interest on deposits. Finally, technological change is influencing how individuals and firms conduct their financial affairs and changing the delivery channels for financial services, with the result that the Company may have to contend with a broader range of competitors including many that are not located within the geographic footprint of its banking office network.  

M&T may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.  

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  

M&T relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity.  

M&T is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. M&T typically receives substantially all of its revenue from subsidiary dividends. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on M&T stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that M&T’s banking subsidiaries and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as parent bank holding companies. See “Item 1. Business — Dividends” for a discussion of regulatory and other restrictions on dividend declarations. Also, M&T’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on M&T’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on its stock or interest and principal on its debt.  

The Company is subject to operational risk.  

Like all businesses, the Company is subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk  

30  

Table of Contents 

 also encompasses reputational risk and compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. The Company is also exposed to operational risk through outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of its outsourcing vendors can have on the Company’s ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to its business. In addition, along with other participants in the financial services industry, the Company continually and frequently attempts to introduce new technology-driven products and services that are aimed at allowing the Company to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allows it to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Although the Company seeks to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls which are reviewed and updated, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to the Company’s reputation or foregone business opportunities.  

Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  

The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the restating of the Company’s prior period financial statements.  

M&T’s accounting policies and processes are critical to the reporting of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.  

Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to the Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of M&T’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), management is required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing the Company’s financial statements. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company’s financial statements are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses.  

Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. M&T has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, M&T could be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements if those judgments and estimates prove to be incorrect. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8.  

Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company’s own operations may prevent M&T from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions.  

M&T has regularly considered opportunities to expand and improve its business through acquisition of other financial institutions. Inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. M&T may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which the Company and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. The Company may lose customers or fail to retain the customers of  

31  

Table of Contents 

 acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and integration activities may require M&T to devote substantial time and resources, and as a result M&T may not be able to pursue other business opportunities.  

After completing an acquisition, the Company may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, the Company could experience higher credit losses than originally anticipated related to an acquired loan portfolio.  

M&T could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.  

M&T’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that the Company serves is significant and the Company may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. Growth in the Company’s business, including through acquisitions, may increase its need for additional qualified personnel. If the Company is not able to hire or retain these key individuals, it may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, financial condition and results of operations.  

In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a banking organization’s incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. If as a result of complying with any such rules M&T is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if the compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more significant, the Company’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  

Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business.  

Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although the Company has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitors for significant environmental effects on its properties or its investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The Company’s information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security.  

The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect the Company’s customer relationships. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated.  

There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, the Company may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. The ability of the Company’s customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches.  

The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of the Company’s systems, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability.  

32  

Table of Contents 

The Company is or may become involved from time to time in suits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies that may lead to adverse consequences.  

Many aspects of the Company’s business involve substantial risk of legal liability. M&T and/or its subsidiaries have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various lawsuits arising from its or its subsidiaries’ business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies M&T has acquired). In addition, from time to time, M&T is, or may become, the subject of governmental and self-regulatory agency information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings and other forms of regulatory inquiry, including by the SEC and law enforcement authorities. M&T is also at risk when it has agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings, including litigation and governmental investigations and inquiries, they face, such as in connection with the purchase or sale of a business or assets. The results of such proceedings could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, restrictions on the way in which the Company conducts its business, or reputational harm.  

Although the Company establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, the Company’s ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  

M&T relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure.  

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the Company’s business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. The Company may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the Company’s business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.  

Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined above and other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T common stock, in particular.  

In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the FASB or other regulatory agencies.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.