PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

Overview  

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL” or the “Company”) is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiary is United Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “United”). As UAL consolidates United for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of United also apply to UAL, unless otherwise noted. United’s operating revenues and operating expenses comprise nearly 100% of UAL’s revenues and operating expenses. In addition, United comprises approximately the entire balance of UAL’s assets, liabilities and operating cash flows. When appropriate, UAL and United are named specifically for their individual contractual obligations and related disclosures and any significant differences between the operations and results of UAL and United are separately disclosed and explained. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this report for disclosures that relate to all of UAL and United.  

UAL was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. Our world headquarters is located at 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606 (telephone number (872) 825-4000).  

The Company’s website is www.unitedcontinentalholdings.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  

On May 2, 2010, UAL Corporation, Continental Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “Continental”) and JT Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger. On October 1, 2010, JT Merger Sub Inc. merged with and into Continental, with Continental surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (the “Merger”). Upon closing of the Merger, UAL Corporation became the parent company of both United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental and UAL Corporation’s name was changed to United Continental Holdings, Inc. On March 31, 2013, the Company merged United Air Lines, Inc. into Continental to form one legal entity, and Continental’s name was changed to United Airlines, Inc. The financial statements of United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental are now combined at their historical cost for all periods presented beginning on October 1, 2010, the date on which Continental became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL.  

Operations  

Network. The Company transports people and cargo through its mainline operations, which use jet aircraft with at least 118 seats, and its regional operations. See Part I, Item 2, Properties, for a description of the Company’s mainline and regional aircraft.  

3  

Table of Contents 

With key global air rights in the United States, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and its regional carriers, operates an average of more than 5,300 flights a day to more than 360 airports across six continents from the Company’s hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport (“Newark Liberty”), Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston Bush”), Hopkins International Airport (“Cleveland”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”). In February 2014, the Company announced that it would be reducing its flying from Cleveland in stages beginning in April 2014. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, 2014 Outlook of this report for additional information on Cleveland.  

All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination” traffic. The hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if each route were served directly. The hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network.  

Regional. The Company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. These regional operations are an extension of the Company’s mainline network. This regional service complements our operations by carrying traffic that connects to our mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. Chautauqua Airlines, Republic Airlines, CommutAir Airlines, ExpressJet Airlines, GoJet Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines (“SkyWest”) and Trans States Airlines (“Trans States”) are all regional carriers, which operate most of their capacity contracted to United under capacity purchase agreements (“CPAs”) with United. Under these CPAs, the Company pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment for superior operational performance) based on agreed performance metrics. The fees for carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the regional carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. Under these CPAs, the Company is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and other costs, which are passed through by the regional carrier to the Company without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity exclusively for United, on schedules determined by the Company. The Company also determines pricing and revenue management, assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats, and permits mileage accrual and redemption for regional flights through its MileagePlus loyalty program.  

While the regional carriers operating under CPAs comprise more than 95% of all regional flights, the Company also has prorate agreements with Hyannis Air Service, Inc. (“Cape Air”), Silver Airways (“Silver”), SkyWest and Trans States. Under these commercial flying agreements, the Company and its regional carriers agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both the Company and its regional carriers are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. Unlike CPAs, under a prorate agreement, the regional carrier retains the control and risk of scheduling, and in most cases, market selection, local seat pricing and inventory for its flights, although the Company and its regional carriers may coordinate schedules to maximize connections.  

Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), can be found in Note 18 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

Alliances. United has a number of strategic bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, including marketing alliances and joint ventures, which enhance travel options for customers by providing greater time of  

4  

Table of Contents 

 day coverage to common destinations, additional mileage accrual and redemption opportunities, and expanded global network access. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: loyalty program reciprocity; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling, airport lounge access and flight schedules, and other resource-sharing activities that include joint sales and marketing.  

United is a member of Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997 and the largest and most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. As of January 1, 2014, Star Alliance carriers served 1,328 airports in 195 countries with over 21,900 daily flights. Current Star Alliance members, in addition to United, are Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways (“ANA”), Asiana Airlines, Austrian Airlines, Avianca, Brussels Airlines, Copa Airlines, Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, Ethiopian Airlines, EVA Air, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, SAS Scandinavian Airlines, Shenzhen Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, SWISS, TAM Airlines (“TAM”), TAP Portugal, THAI Airways International, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. On December 9, 2013, US Airways and American Airlines closed their merger transaction and, as a result, we anticipate US Airways will exit Star Alliance on March 30, 2014. LATAM Airlines Group, the parent company of TAM following TAM’s merger with LAN Airlines, announced that TAM would exit Star Alliance at a future date, expected in early 2014. In addition, in late 2013, Star Alliance announced it would recommence integration activities with Air India following the cessation of such activities in July 2011. A joining date for Air India has yet to be determined.  

United has a variety of bilateral commercial alliance agreements and obligations with Star Alliance members, addressing, among other things, reciprocal earning, redemption of frequent flyer miles and access to airport lounges and, with certain Star Alliance members, codesharing of flight operations. In addition to the alliance agreements with Star Alliance members, United currently maintains independent marketing alliance agreements with other air carriers currently unaffiliated with a global alliance, including Aeromar, Aer Lingus, Cape Air, Great Lakes Airlines, Silver, Hawaiian Airlines, Island Air, and Jet Airways. United also offers a train-to-plane alliance with Amtrak from Newark Liberty to select regional destinations.  

United also participates in joint ventures, one with Air Canada and the Lufthansa Group (which includes Lufthansa and its affiliates Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines and SWISS) covering transatlantic routes, and another with ANA covering certain transpacific routes. These joint ventures enable the participating carriers to integrate the services they provide in the respective regions, capturing revenue synergies and delivering highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. The European Commission conducted a standard review of the competitive effects of United’s transatlantic joint venture and closed its review in May 2013.  

Loyalty Program. United’s MileagePlus program builds customer loyalty by offering awards and services to program participants. Members in this program earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, airlines in Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Members can also earn miles by purchasing the goods and services of our network of non-airline partners, such as credit card issuers, retail merchants, hotels and car rental companies. Members can redeem mileage credits for free (other than taxes and government imposed fees), discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards.  

Under the Company’s Consolidated Amended and Restated Co-Branded Card Marketing Services Agreement (the “Co-Brand Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”), loyalty program members accrue frequent flyer miles for making purchases using co-branded credit cards issued by Chase. The Co-Brand Agreement provides for joint marketing of the Company’s credit card program and provides Chase with other benefits such as permission to market to the Company’s customer database.  

Five million and 4.7 million MileagePlus flight awards were used on United in 2013 and 2012, respectively. These awards represented 7.7% and 7.1% of United’s total revenue passenger miles in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total miles redeemed for flights on United in 2013, including class-of-service upgrades, represented approximately 80% of the total miles redeemed.  

5  

Table of Contents 

In addition, excluding miles redeemed for flights on United, MileagePlus members redeemed miles for approximately two million other awards in 2013 as compared to 1.6 million in 2012. These awards include United Club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and flights on other air carriers.  

Fuel. Aircraft fuel has been the Company’s single largest operating expense for the last several years. The table below summarizes UAL’s aircraft fuel consumption and expense during the last three years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Calculation excludes special charges identified in Note 17 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affect the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. To provide adequate supplies of fuel, the Company routinely enters into short-term and long-term purchase contracts and has some ability to store fuel close to its major hub locations. To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company generally uses commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including diesel fuel and crude oil.  

Third-Party Business. United generates third-party business revenue that includes fuel sales, catering, ground handling, maintenance services and frequent flyer award non-air redemptions, and third-party business revenue is recorded in Other operating revenue. The Company has a contract to sell aircraft fuel to a third party that results in revenue and expense, which is unrelated to the operation of the airline. United also incurs third-party business expenses, such as maintenance, ground handling and catering services for third parties, fuel sales and non-air mileage redemptions, and those third-party business expenses are recorded in Other operating expenses.  

Distribution Channels. The majority of the Company’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and global distribution systems (“GDS”). The use of the Company’s direct sales website, united.com, the Company’s mobile applications and alternative distribution systems, provides the Company with an opportunity to de-commoditize its services, better control its content, make more targeted offerings, better retain its customers, enhance its brand and lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website and mobile applications and explore alternative distribution channels.  

Industry Conditions  

Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. Currently, any U.S. carrier deemed fit by the DOT is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the United States. The Company’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  

Air carriers’ cost structures are not uniform and there are numerous factors influencing cost structure. Carriers with lower costs may deliver lower fares to passengers, which could have a potential negative impact on the Company’s revenues. In addition, future airline mergers, acquisitions or reorganizations pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code may enable airlines to improve their revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance their competitive position within the industry.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Decisions on domestic pricing are based on intense competitive pressure exerted on the Company by other U.S. airlines. In order to remain competitive and maintain passenger traffic levels, we often find it necessary to match competitors’ discounted fares. Since we compete in a dynamic marketplace, attempts to generate additional revenue through increased fares oftentimes fail.  

International Competition. Internationally, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. International competition has increased and may increase in the future as a result of airline mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances, restructurings, liberalization of aviation bilateral agreements and new or increased service by competitors. Competition on international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. The Company’s ability to compete successfully with non-U.S. carriers on international routes depends in part on its ability to generate traffic to and from the entire United States via its integrated domestic route network and its ability to overcome business and operational challenges across its network worldwide. Foreign carriers currently are prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the United States and the Company experiences comparable restrictions in foreign countries except where “fifth freedom rights” have been negotiated between the U.S. government and other countries. In addition, in the absence of open skies and fifth freedom rights, U.S. carriers are constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements and restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate partially for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances, joint ventures and marketing arrangements that enable these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See Alliances, above, for further information.  

Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, demand for air travel is higher in the second and third quarters, driving higher revenues, than in the first and fourth quarters, which are periods of lower travel demand.  

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation  

General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the United States are subject to regulation by the DOT. Absent an exemption, no air carrier may provide air transportation of passengers or property without first being issued a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity. The DOT also grants international route authority, approves international codeshare arrangements, and regulates methods of competition. The DOT regulates consumer protection and maintains jurisdiction over advertising, denied boarding compensation, tarmac delays, baggage liability and other areas, and may add additional expensive regulatory burdens in the future. The DOT’s series of rules to enhance airline passenger protections have required U.S. air carriers to adopt contingency plans and procedures for tarmac delays exceeding three hours for domestic flights and four hours for international flights and to charge the same baggage fee throughout a passenger’s entire itinerary (even if on multiple carriers).  

Airlines are also regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), an agency within the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight safety, air carrier operations, and aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. The FAA issues air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribes maintenance procedures, oversees airport operations, and regulates pilot and other employee training. The 2011 FAA final rule amending existing flight, duty and rest regulations applicable to U.S. air carriers under Part 117 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, which took effect on January 4, 2014, mandates extensive changes to the way the Company schedules crews and deploys aircraft. From time to time, the FAA issues directives that require air carriers to inspect or modify aircraft and other equipment, potentially causing the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to numerous other federal laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has jurisdiction over virtually every aspect of civil aviation security. Beginning in March 2014, the Occupation Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) will extend its regulatory programs for hazard communication, hearing conservation and blood borne pathogens to areas of cabin crewmember safety and health. The Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction  

7  

Table of Contents 

 over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail by airlines. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”), a federal statute. The Company is also subject to investigation inquiries by the DOT, FAA, DOJ and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by the Company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Federally mandated domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C., John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”), LaGuardia Airport (“LaGuardia”) and Newark Liberty. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including Newark Liberty, JFK, and LaGuardia as “high density traffic airports” and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, which may include capacity reductions. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots at these and other airports may be proposed in the future that could affect the Company’s rights of ownership and transfer.  

Legislation. The airline industry is subject to legislative activity that may have an impact on operations and costs. In addition to significant federal, state and local taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending that may increase the Company’s operating costs if imposed on the Company. Congress may pass legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. The Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Extension Act of 2010 and the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 have increased regulation and are likely to cause increased costs in the areas of airline safety, pilot training, and consumer protection. Climate change legislation is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact the Company’s costs. See Environmental Regulation, below.  

Finally, aviation security continues to be the subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes, frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures, and adversely affecting its operations.  

International Regulation  

General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with the Company’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries the Company serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

Legislation. Foreign countries are increasingly enacting passenger protection laws, rules and regulations that meet or exceed U.S. requirements. In cases where this activity exceeds U.S. requirements, additional burden and liability may be placed on the Company. The European Union (“EU”) requires compensation to passengers under many circumstances for canceled and delayed flights, in addition to denied boarding compensation. Similar regulations in other countries require passenger compensation and subject the Company to enforcement penalties in addition to changes in operating procedures.  

Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all U.S.-flag carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Currently, there are more than 100 open skies agreements in effect. However, many of the airports that the Company serves in Europe, Asia and Latin America maintain slot controls. A large number of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow International Airport, Frankfurt Rhein-Main Airport, Shanghai Pudong International Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, Sao Paulo Guarulhos International Airport and Tokyo Haneda International Airport are among the most restrictive foreign airports due to capacity limitations. As an example, under the 2010 United States-Japan open skies agreement, only four slot pairs are available in Haneda to U.S. air carriers at this time, none of which is held by the Company.  

8  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant foreign governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of the Company’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

Environmental Regulation  

General. The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, aircraft noise, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Areas of either proposed regulations or implementation of new regulations include regulations surrounding climate change (discussed further below), State of California regulations regarding air emissions from ground support equipment, and a federal rule-making seeking to regulate airport fuel hydrant systems under the underground storage tank regulations.  

Climate Change. There are certain laws and regulations relating to climate change that apply to the Company, including the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme (“EU ETS”), environmental taxes for certain international flights (including Germany’s departure ticket tax), greenhouse gas reporting requirements, and the State of California’s cap and trade regulations (that impact United’s San Francisco maintenance center). In addition, there are land-based planning laws that could apply to airport expansion projects, requiring a review of carbon emissions, and could affect airlines in certain circumstances.  

The 2009 EU directive to include aviation carbon emissions from flights to and from the EU in the EU ETS has been the subject of significant international dispute among countries, including the United States. In response to the directive, the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act of 2011 directed the DOT to seek an international solution regarding aviation carbon emissions through the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”), and if necessary, to prohibit U.S. airlines from participation in the EU ETS and hold the airlines harmless from the scheme. In April 2013, to give ICAO an opportunity to reach international agreement, the EU approved a one year stay such that the requirements of the EU ETS would apply only to intra-EU flights.  

In October 2013, ICAO adopted a resolution establishing the path for development of a global market-based measure to regulate international aviation carbon emissions for final approval by ICAO in 2016. The cost to the Company of any such global measure is not known at this time. The same resolution requires that any individual country or region that regulates carbon emissions from international aviation seek agreement through multi-lateral negotiations. Also in October 2013, the EU proposed changes to the EU ETS, contrary to the ICAO resolution, that regulate a portion of carbon emissions from international flights arriving in or departing from an EU airport. The precise cost to the Company should these proposed changes to the EU ETS be finalized is difficult to calculate due to a number of variables including the undetermined methodology for calculating the portion of emissions to be regulated, the Company’s future carbon emissions, the price of carbon credits that the Company would purchase under the EU ETS, and whether the DOT would take action under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act of 2011. The Company is taking various actions to reduce its carbon emissions through fleet renewal, aircraft retrofits and actions that are establishing the foundation for the commercialization of aviation alternative fuels.  

Other Environmental Matters. Some U.S. and foreign airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types and operating times. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in services or increased operating costs, and could limit our ability to expand our operations at the affected airports. The Company is engaged in a number of geographic locations where changes to existing noise policies are being considered. 

The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives and which may require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of  

9  

Table of Contents 

 facilities can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2013, UAL, including its subsidiaries, had approximately 87,000 employees. Approximately 80% of the Company’s employees were represented by various U.S. labor organizations as of December 31, 2013.  

Collective bargaining agreements between the Company and its represented employee groups are negotiated under the RLA. Such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date and instead specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” The Company continues to integrate its remaining employee groups in connection with the Merger, such process being governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of United’s collective bargaining agreements and union policies.  

The following table reflects the Company’s represented employee groups, number of employees per represented group, union representation for each of United’s employee groups where applicable, amendable date for each employee group’s collective bargaining agreement and whether the group is engaged in negotiations for a joint collective bargaining agreement:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) The table includes the Company’s U.S. based (and Guam) union represented employees only.  

(b) The respective amendable dates for those joint negotiations in progress reflect the remaining United, Continental and/or Continental Micronesia, Inc. (“CMI”) stand-alone agreements.  

The Company cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its unionized employee groups, although significant increases in the pay and benefits resulting from new collective bargaining agreements would have an adverse financial impact on the Company. See Notes 15 and 17 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for more information on labor negotiations and costs.  

10  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.