Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected.  

We may not be able to successfully combine the Nasdaq and OMX businesses.  

We intend to close our combination with OMX by the end of February 2008. Rationalizing, coordinating and integrating the operations of Nasdaq and OMX will involve complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges. This process will be time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. The difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include:  

   •    unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies’ operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate;  

18  

Table of Contents 

   •    unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods;  

   •    inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company;  

   •    the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in both the United States and Europe, which may be different from each other;  

   •    resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between Nasdaq and OMX;  

   •    the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities;  

   •    the integration of Nasdaq’s and OMX’s respective businesses, operations and workforces;  

   •    the retention of key employees and the management of OMX and Nasdaq;  

   •    the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at OMX to enable the combined company to comply with the requirements of, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and U.S. securities laws and regulations required as a result of the combined company’s status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act;  

   •    the coordination of geographically separate organizations;  

   •    the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts;  

   •    possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company;  

   •    possible modification of OMX’s operating control standards in order for the combined company to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which is required as a result of the combined company’s status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act;  

   •    the retention and recruitment of employees to support existing and new aspects of the combined company’s business and new technology development;  

   •    the pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs, which are estimated at $150 million to be incurred in the two years following completion of the acquisition;  

   •    the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners;  

   •    negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments; and  

   •    regulatory issues.  

For these reasons, the combined company may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits, including cost savings from operational efficiencies and synergies, from the combination of the businesses of Nasdaq and OMX, and any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we currently anticipate, and we may fail to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the combination of the two companies.  

We will need to invest in our operations to integrate OMX and other transactions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds to do so.  

We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. We believe that we can meet our current capital requirements, including our planned combination with OMX and the proposed acquisitions of the Boston Stock Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements as currently planned, however, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

19  

Table of Contents 

In addition to our debt service obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations through 2010 to integrate OMX. If we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate OMX.  

Should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in the debt instruments we plan to enter into in connection with our acquisition of OMX. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. Thus, there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all.  

Our leverage limits our financial flexibility.  

Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $118.4 million. In connection with the closing of our upcoming transactions, we expect to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness, including the issuance of up to $425 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes (not including any additional notes issued under an overallotment option for up to $50 million in aggregate principal amount) and borrowing up to $2.0 billion under senior secured loans under credit facilities. We may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under a revolver.  

Our leverage could:  

   •    reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;  

   •    increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions;  

   •    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and  

   •    affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes.  

In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. Failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged.  

The securities market business is highly competitive.  

We face competition from numerous entities in the securities market industry, including competition for trading services, listings, and financial products from other exchanges and market centers. This competition includes both product and price competition and could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges and market centers in the United States and Europe.  

In addition, the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. Both in the U.S. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense.  

In the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. In response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both Europe and   

20  

Table of Contents 

 the United States have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. The securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. In addition, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers.  

Examples of these new competitive forces include:  

   •    the creation of NYSE Euronext, Inc. in April 2007 and its pending acquisition of Amex (see discussion below);  

   •    new ECNs operating in the U.S. cash equities trading market, such as Direct Edge, Lava Flow and BATS;  

   •    proposed new U.S. exchanges, such as BATS, which has filed an application to register as a U.S. registered national securities exchange;  

   •    the combination of Deutsche Börse AG and International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.;  

   •    electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform;  

   •    a number of investment banks have set up a multilateral trading facility in Europe, also known as Turquoise;  

   •    a number of investment banks have launched a multilateral trade reporting facility in Europe, also known as Project Boat;  

   •    alternative trading platforms in Europe such as Equiduct, Chi-X and Plus Markets;  

   •    alternative trade reporting platforms in Europe such as Reuters Trade Publication;  

   •    the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., the National Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange all have investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry;  

   •    the International Securities Exchange’s and the Chicago Board Options Exchange’s launch of cash equities exchanges in September 2006 and March 2007, respectively; and  

   •    global electronic interdealer brokers, such as ICAP.  

If these or other trading venues are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.  

Because of these market trends, we face intense competition. Competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected.  

Price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business.  

The securities trading industry in the United States is characterized by intense price competition. We have in the past lowered prices and increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. These strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. Additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which adversely impacts operating results.  

The securities trading industry also competes with respect to the pricing of market data. In addition, we are subject to price competition with respect to proprietary products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. In the future our competitors may offer market data rebates for quotes and trades on their systems.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Our trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with FINRA for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facilities operated jointly with FINRA by the National Stock Exchange and the NYSE. Our trade reporting facility also faces competition from FINRA’s alternative display facility. Our competitors’ market data rebate programs for trade reporting could lead to a loss of market share and decreased revenues.  

The NYSE’s recent mergers and acquisitions activity has created a strong competitor in our industry that has a similar strategy to ours.  

The combination of the NYSE and Euronext creates strong competition for us. The combination makes NYSE Euronext more competitive in attracting new listings. NYSE Euronext is also enhancing its electronic trading capabilities, which compete directly with Nasdaq’s and may result in NYSE Euronext’s trading volume increasing to our detriment. On January 17, 2008, NYSE Euronext issued a press release announcing it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Amex. According to the press release, NYSE Euronext expects the acquisition of Amex to enhance NYSE Euronext’s scale in U.S. options (making it the third largest U.S. options marketplace), and in ETFs, closed-end funds, structured products and cash equities. If NYSE Euronext succeeds in attracting disproportionately more trading volume or additional listings, this may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

We face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results.  

We compete for trading of securities listed on Nasdaq, NYSE and Amex. Any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in the U.S. through other exchanges, electronic communications networks, ECNs, or the alternative display facility maintained by FINRA, could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through The Nasdaq Market Center.  

Although we trade a large percentage of securities of Nasdaq-listed companies, we face strong competition from other exchanges and emerging players in the market. For non-Nasdaq-listed securities, the other national exchanges collectively offer greater liquidity than we do. Accordingly, we face greater obstacles in trying to attract trading volume in non-Nasdaq-listed securities.  

Our responses to competition may not be sufficient to regain lost business or prevent other market participants from shifting some of their quoting and/or trade reporting to other industry participants. We may need to reduce prices to remain competitive.  

We must adapt to significant competition in our listing business.  

We must adapt to significant competition in our listing business from other exchanges. Historically, the NYSE has been our largest competitor, and we have competed with the NYSE primarily for listings of larger domestic and international companies. In addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from Nasdaq to other venues. While the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease our listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers’ securities.  

Nasdaq’s revenues may be affected by competition in the business for financial products.  

We have grown our financial products business, which creates indexes and licenses them for Nasdaq-branded financial products. Nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other ETFs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. Our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors’ financial products designed to replicate or correlate with the performance of our financial products. In addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing   

22  

Table of Contents 

 of these financial products, has changed in a manner which is likely to adversely impact our ability to successfully license our products. Further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce products that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results.  

A decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues.  

Trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. Because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, investor confidence and trader interest, and thus trading volume, can be affected by factors outside our control, such as the publicity surrounding investigations and prosecutions for corporate governance or accounting irregularities at listed companies.  

Declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues.  

Stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on The NASDAQ Stock Market, and thus our related revenues. We recognize revenue from new listings on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. As a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years.  

We may experience fluctuations in our operating results.  

The financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume.  

Additionally, since borrowings under the credit facilities that we plan to enter into in connection with our combination with OMX bear interest at variable rates and we do not have interest rate hedges in place on this debt, any increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. Other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. A substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. Our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue is below management’s expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.  

We must control our costs to remain profitable.  

We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. A decline in the demand for our products and services may reduce our revenues without a corresponding decline in expenses since we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. Our failure to achieve goals on cost savings will have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  

23  

Table of Contents 

We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry.  

The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. If our platform fails to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. In addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. Further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

System limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business.  

Our business depends on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting us. If our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. These consequences could result in lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. Nasdaq and OMX have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays.  

If our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner.  

Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We have active and aggressive programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. Although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results.  

The adoption and implementation of Regulation NMS by the SEC could adversely affect our business.  

On April 6, 2005, the SEC adopted Regulation NMS. Regulation NMS’s four primary components are: the Order Protection Rule, the Access Rule, the Market Data Rule and the Sub-Penny Rule. We have incurred technological and other costs in changing our systems and operations so that we can comply with these rules. Although the major provisions of Regulation NMS were largely phased in over the course of 2007, the impact of Regulation NMS is hard to predict and there may be problems or competitive challenges that we do not foresee that adversely affect our business due to Regulation NMS. Regulation NMS may increase competition in securities listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other exchanges from existing or new competitors.  

Regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Nasdaq operates in a highly regulated industry. In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to a number of recent developments and inquiries. Any of these factors or events may result in future regulatory or other changes, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. Our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. The SEC and other regulatory authorities could impose   

24  

Table of Contents 

 regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our market participants to use The Nasdaq Market Center or could adversely affect The NASDAQ Stock Market. Regulatory changes by the SEC or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on The NASDAQ Stock Market.  

Nasdaq is subject to extensive regulation that may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities.  

Under current U.S. federal securities laws, changes in our rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed, and in many cases explicitly approved by the SEC. The SEC may approve, disapprove or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. In addition, the SEC may delay the initiation of the public comment process or the approval process. This delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must compete not only with ECNs that are not subject to the same SEC approval process but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. There is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation.  

In addition, Nasdaq’s registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC and NASDAQ Option Services, LLC are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. Any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. These subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule and NYSE and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital.  

Nasdaq has self-regulatory obligations and also operates for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest.  

We have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on The NASDAQ Stock Market and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our market by market participants and Nasdaq-listed companies. The SEC staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. Although Nasdaq outsources the majority of its market regulation functions to FINRA, Nasdaq does perform regulatory functions related to its listed companies and its market. In addition, as part of Nasdaq’s application for exchange registration, Nasdaq agreed that 20% of the directors of its exchange subsidiary will be elected by members of the exchange rather than the equity holders of the subsidiary. Any failure by Nasdaq to diligently and fairly regulate its market or to otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation.  

Recent SEC rulemaking has liberalized the foreign private issuer deregistration rules.  

In March 2007, the SEC adopted rules that make it easier for foreign private issuers to deregister and terminate their SEC reporting obligations. Under the deregistration rule, a foreign private issuer can deregister equity securities if its average U.S. trading volume over a 12-month period represents 5% or less of its worldwide trading volume, so long as it meets certain requirements. Once a foreign private issuer’s securities are deregistered and the issuer ceases its Exchange Act reporting, those securities are no longer eligible for trading on any public exchange in the U.S. As a result, we may face the loss of listing and trading services revenues associated with foreign private issuers who chose to deregister under the SEC rules.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory recognition of foreign exchanges may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities.   

Under current U.S. federal securities laws, foreign exchanges seeking to operate in the U.S. must meet substantially all of the regulatory requirements we face. The SEC has the authority to exempt foreign exchanges from these requirements and currently has granted one foreign exchange, Tradepoint LLC, an exemption based on low volume and other restrictions. Consequently, Virt-x Exchange Limited (the successor to Tradepoint LLC) is the only foreign exchange able to operate in the U.S. without meeting all the regulatory requirements we face. Recently, the SEC has begun discussing the possibility of reciprocal recognition of exchanges operating under comparable regulatory regimes. Based on the extent and manner in which the SEC pursues reciprocal recognition, there is a possibility that other foreign exchanges may enter the U.S. market without meeting all the regulatory requirements we meet. The entry of foreign exchanges into the U.S. market without complying with U.S. regulatory obligations would create additional competitive pressure on us, particularly in the trading of dual-listed foreign securities.  

The legal and regulatory environment in the United States may make it difficult for The NASDAQ Stock Market to attract the secondary listings of non-U.S. companies.  

The NASDAQ Stock Market competes to obtain the listing of non-U.S. issuer securities (in addition to the listing of U.S. issuer securities). However, the legal and regulatory environment in the United States, as well as the perception of this environment, has made and may continue to make it more difficult for Nasdaq to attract these listings and may therefore adversely affect our competitive position. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes a stringent set of corporate governance, reporting and other requirements on publicly listed companies in the U.S. Significant resources are necessary for issuers to come into and remain in compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which has had, and may continue to have, an impact on the ability of Nasdaq to attract and retain listings. At the same time, international companies are increasingly seeking access to the U.S. markets through private transactions that do not require listing or trading in the U.S. public markets, such as through Rule 144A transactions. Non-U.S. issuers may choose to list with non-U.S. securities exchanges exclusively without a secondary listing in the United States because they perceive the U.S. regulatory requirements and the U.S. litigation environment as too cumbersome and costly. If Nasdaq is unable to successfully attract the listing business of non-U.S. issuers, the perception of The NASDAQ Stock Market as a premier listing venue may be diminished, and our competitive position may be adversely affected or our operating results could suffer.  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents.  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. In particular, our subsidiary Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services Nasdaq Execution Services provides for our trading customers.  

System trades in Nasdaq-listed securities, NYSE-listed securities, AMEX-listed securities and trades routed to other market centers for Exchange members are cleared by Nasdaq Execution Services, as a member of the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC).  

Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. However, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as Nasdaq Execution Services’ customers are not permitted to trade on margin and NSCC rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limit and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with NSCC. Nasdaq Execution Services has never incurred a liability due to a customer’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. Credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market   

26  

Table of Contents 

 participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. We also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. Our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets. Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.  

Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. Competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who will be relied upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner.  

We are highly dependent on the continued services of Robert Greifeld, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. Other than employment agreements with Mr. Greifeld and Nasdaq’s general counsel, we do not have employment agreements with key executive officers, which would prevent them from leaving and competing with us. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. The loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liability.  

Many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. Although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities, and we and our broker-dealer affiliates could be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, and rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory agencies. In addition, we are subject to liability under the laws of certain foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, or claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. As we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred.  

In addition, Nasdaq is subject to oversight by the SEC. The SEC regularly examines Nasdaq and its broker-dealer affiliates for compliance with Nasdaq’s obligations under the securities laws. In the case of non-compliance with our obligations under those laws, Nasdaq or its broker-dealer affiliates could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties.  

Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively.  

To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. The protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Nasdaq has registered, or applied to register, its trademarks in the United States and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and has pending U.S. and foreign applications for other trademarks. Nasdaq also maintains copyright protection on its Nasdaq-branded materials and pursues patent protection for Nasdaq-developed inventions and processes.  

Effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.  

Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.  

One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. Various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to:  

   •    the representation of our business in the media;  

   •    the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information;  

   •    the quality of our corporate governance structure; and  

   •    the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market information services business and the accuracy of calculations used by our financial products business for indexes and unit investment trusts.  

Damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchange, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchange or cause us to lose customers in our market information services or financial products businesses. This, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.  

As of August 1, 2006, Nasdaq is a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations.  

Future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities.  

Over the past three years, acquisitions including the acquisitions of INET and Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC (formerly Brut, LLC) and the proposed combination with OMX and acquisitions of PHLX and BSX have been (or, in the case of future acquisitions, are expected to be) significant factors in Nasdaq’s growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us.  

We may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our stock. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt resulted in significant   

28  

Table of Contents 

 incremental leverage. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with the credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business.  

These equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:  

   •    problems with effective integration of operations;  

   •    the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;  

   •    increased operating costs;  

   •    the diversion of our management team from its other operations;  

   •    problems with regulatory bodies;  

   •    exposure to unanticipated liabilities;  

   •    difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and  

   •    changes in our credit rating and financing costs.  

Charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock.   

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we will account for the completion of our transactions with Borse Dubai and OMX using the purchase method of accounting. We will allocate the total estimated purchase price to OMX’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and non-amortized intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the transactions, record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by U.S. GAAP including the following:  

   •    we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the transactions during such estimated useful lives;  

   •    we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as compared to book value as recorded by OMX;  

   •    to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and  

   •    we will incur certain adjustments to reflect OMX’s financial condition and operating results under U.S. GAAP and U.S. dollars.  

We expect to incur costs associated with these transactions, including financial advisors’ fees and legal and accounting fees. In addition, we expect to incur costs associated with realizing synergies from the transactions. These costs may be substantial and may include those related to the severance and stock option acceleration provisions of employee benefit plans, as well as other exit costs. We face potential costs related to employee retention and deployment of physical capital and other integration costs. We have not yet determined the amount of these costs. We expect to account for costs directly related to the transactions, including financial advisors’ costs, legal and accounting fees and certain exit costs associated with OMX’s operations as purchase related adjustments when the transactions are completed, as proscribed under U.S. GAAP. These items will reduce cash balances for the periods in which these costs are paid. Other costs that are not directly related to the transactions, including retention and integration costs, will be recorded as incurred and will negatively impact earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the price of our common stock.  

In addition, from the date of the completion of the transactions, our results of operations will include OMX’s operating results, presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. OMX’s historical consolidated financial   

29  

Table of Contents 

 statements for 2004 through 2007 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain material respects from U.S. GAAP. For instance, U.S. GAAP will require OMX to recognize revenue under certain of its technology contracts over the term of the contract rather than at the beginning of the contract. Accordingly, the U.S. GAAP presentation of OMX’s results of operations may not be comparable to its historical financial statements.  

Our investment in DIFX may be unsuccessful and could harm us in other ways.  

We and Borse Dubai have agreed that in exchange for $50.0 million and the entry into certain licensing and technology agreements, we will acquire 33 1/3% of the outstanding equity of DIFX. We have also committed to providing additional capital, up to $25.0 million, to DIFX under certain circumstances. Our investment in DIFX may be unsuccessful. These investments are in addition to the maximum of approximately SEK 12.6 billion in cash we may pay Borse Dubai for OMX shares. Additionally, these licensing and technology agreements will allow DIFX to use the Nasdaq trademark and exchange technologies from both us and OMX. DIFX’s use may have an adverse effect on us and our brand and other intellectual property. We may not be able to terminate these agreements or end our association with DIFX in a manner that would prevent lasting and potentially significant harm to our brand and reputation, particularly in certain key emerging markets. Our agreements with DIFX will also prevent or limit us from seeking opportunities to grow our business in certain regions, and this may have a negative impact on us in the future.  

The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the completion of the transactions with Borse Dubai and OMX.  

The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the completion of the transactions with Borse Dubai and OMX if:  

   •    the combination of Nasdaq’s and OMX’s businesses is unsuccessful;  

   •    we do not achieve the expected benefits of the combination with OMX as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; or  

   •    the effect of the transactions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors.  

The benefits of the combination of Nasdaq and OMX may not be achieved if we cannot effect the compulsory acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding OMX shares.  

Under Swedish law, to effect the compulsory acquisition of OMX shares for which valid acceptances have not been received, we are required to have acquired more than 90% of the outstanding OMX shares. As a result, it is possible that we may not acquire a sufficient number of OMX shares to effect a compulsory acquisition of the remaining outstanding OMX shares. Since, in this situation, OMX would not be a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nasdaq, this will prevent or delay us from realizing the anticipated benefits (including synergies) from the integration of our operations with OMX’s operations by requiring transactions between OMX and Nasdaq to be on an arm’s-length basis.  

We may be required to pay a higher price for some OMX shares as a result of compulsory acquisition proceedings under Swedish law.  

In the event that Nasdaq obtains more than 90% of the OMX shares, Nasdaq intends to commence a compulsory acquisition procedure under the Swedish Companies Act to acquire all remaining OMX shares. The cost of the compulsory acquisition proceeding will be borne entirely by Nasdaq.  

The purchase price for the OMX shares acquired through a compulsory acquisition procedure will be determined by an arbitration tribunal. The Swedish Companies Act provides that the purchase price for the   

30  

Table of Contents 

 remaining OMX shares will be equivalent to the value of the consideration paid by Borse Dubai in its offer for OMX, unless there are any special circumstances at hand that call for a different price. It may take up to two years or more from initiation of the compulsory acquisition procedure until the arbitration tribunal decides on the purchase price. Thereafter, the purchase price will be distributed to the shareholders whose OMX shares were acquired through the compulsory acquisition procedure, together with interest earned at a market rate set by the Swedish Central Bank pursuant to Swedish law.  

Nasdaq may elect to request advance title to the OMX shares to be acquired in the compulsory acquisition procedure, in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. Advance title means that full ownership is obtained by Nasdaq with respect to the remaining OMX shares before the arbitration proceedings regarding the purchase price have been completed. The arbitration tribunal’s granting of advance title would be subject to Nasdaq providing satisfactory security for payment of the purchase price and the accrued interest thereon.  

As a result of the compulsory acquisition proceedings under Swedish law, Nasdaq may ultimately have to pay, in the aggregate, a higher price per OMX share in order to purchase the remaining OMX shares that are outstanding after completion of Borse Dubai’s offer for OMX than it has agreed to pay to OMX shareholders who tender through Borse Dubai’s offer.  

Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock  

Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders.  

The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things:  

   •    actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;  

   •    changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock;  

   •    conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace;  

   •    announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;  

   •    announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;  

   •    additions or departures of key personnel; and  

   •    sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors.  

The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets.  

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, there were 138,869,150 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our “affiliates,” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act.  

The number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. There were 4,610,258 options exercisable as of December 31, 2007 at a weighted average exercise price of $9.58. The number of shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our convertible   

31  

Table of Contents 

 notes held by Silver Lake Partners, or SLP, and VAB Investors LLC, or VAB, and their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 8,283,162 shares of our common stock, or any exercise of warrants held by SLP and VAB or their respective affiliates, which are exercisable at a price of $14.50 per share into approximately 1,539,489 shares of our common stock. We have registered the shares underlying SLP, VAB and their affiliates’ notes and warrants on a Form S-3 registration statement, and those shares are freely transferable.  

Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and approved exchange rules, including provisions included to address SEC concerns, and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management.  

Our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. Any change to the 5% voting limitation would require SEC approval.  

In response to the SEC’s concern about a concentration of our ownership, our exchange rules include a rule prohibiting any Nasdaq member or any person associated with a Nasdaq member from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. SEC consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. Our exchange rules also require the SEC’s approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions.  

In addition, our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management.  

In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws:  

   •    require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors;  

   •    do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;  

   •    require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings;  

   •    require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and  

   •    authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval.  

Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. In general, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation’s board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner.  

32  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.