Part I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Nasdaq Overview   

The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. is a holding company that operates The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC as its wholly-owned subsidiary. Nasdaq became a holding company on August 1, 2006 when The Nasdaq Stock Market commenced operations as a registered national securities exchange for Nasdaq-listed securities.  

We, through our subsidiaries, are a leading provider of securities listing, trading, and information products and services. Our revenue sources are diverse and include revenues from transaction services, market data products and services, listing fees, insurance products, shareholder, directors and newswire services and financial products.  

The Nasdaq Stock Market is the largest equity securities market in the United States, both in terms of number of listed companies and traded share volume. As of December 31, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market was home to 3,135 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of over $4.2 trillion. Transactions involving 757.1 billion equity securities were executed on or reported to our systems in 2007, 30.3% higher than in 2006.  

We manage, operate and provide our services in two business segments, our Market Services segment and Issuer Services segment.  

Market Services. Our Market Services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. The Nasdaq Stock Market operates The Nasdaq Market Center, our transaction-based platform, which provides our market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in The Nasdaq Stock Market and other national securities exchanges in the U.S. enabling our customers to execute trades in over 7,400 equity securities (including ETFs) during 2007. The Nasdaq Market Center allows us to route and execute buy and sell orders as well as report transactions for Nasdaq-listed securities and those securities listed on other national securities exchanges, providing fee-based revenues. We also generate revenues by providing varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. Our systems enable vendors to gain direct access to our detailed order data, index information, mutual fund pricing information, and corporate action information on Nasdaq-listed securities.  

Issuer Services. Our Issuer Services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder, directors and newswire services and our financial products business. The companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market represent a diverse array of industries including information technology, financial services, healthcare, consumer products and industrials. In the financial products business, we develop and license financial products and associated derivatives based on Nasdaq indexes. We have also introduced financial products based on other Nasdaq indexes, including the Nasdaq-100 Index, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index. In addition, we generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored ETFs. We also provide, through our subsidiaries, products and services to our listed companies and other customers, including insurance, shareholder, directors and newswire services.  

Recent Developments  

Combination with OMX AB and Transactions with Borse Dubai. On September 20, 2007, Nasdaq, Borse Dubai and OMX entered into definitive documents related to various transactions, or collectively, the Transactions. Pursuant to the Transactions, Borse Dubai conducted an offer for all of the outstanding shares of OMX. Borse Dubai’s initial offer expired on February 12, 2008 and it announced that 97.6% of the outstanding shares of OMX have been tendered. Under the terms of the agreement, Borse Dubai has agreed to sell the OMX   

1  

Table of Contents 

 shares acquired in the offer or otherwise owned by Borse Dubai or its subsidiaries to us in exchange for up to SEK 12.6 billion in cash (which amount will be decreased by SEK 265 for every OMX share not acquired by Borse Dubai) and 60.6 million shares of Nasdaq common stock. At the close of the Transactions, Borse Dubai will directly hold approximately 42.7 million shares of Nasdaq common stock (representing 19.99% of our fully diluted outstanding share capital) and approximately 18.0 million shares will be held in a trust, or the Trust, for Borse Dubai’s economic benefit until disposed of by the Trust.  

In addition, as part of the Transactions, we, Borse Dubai and the Dubai International Financial Exchange, or DIFX, have entered into an agreement which provides that in exchange for $50 million in cash to DIFX and the entry into certain technology and trademark licensing agreements, we will acquire 33 1/3% of the equity of DIFX. We will also be responsible for 50% of any additional capital contribution calls made by DIFX, subject to a maximum aggregate additional commitment by Nasdaq of up to $25 million. Closing of this transaction is conditioned upon the concurrent closing of the combination with OMX.  

We expect the Transactions and the DIFX investment to close by the end of February 2008.  

Proposed Acquisitions of the Boston Stock Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. On October 1, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the Boston Stock Exchange, or BSX, for $61.0 million in cash. The BSX acquisition will provide us with an additional license for trading both equities and options and a clearing license. After the close of the BSX acquisition, we expect that BSX’s current operations will be discontinued and will not be integrated into our current operations. We expect the acquisition of BSX to close in the first half of 2008.  

On November 7, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, or PHLX, for $652.0 million in cash, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The acquisition of PHLX, the third largest options market in the U.S., will significantly diversify our product portfolio by providing us with a premier options trading platform in the U.S. We expect the acquisition of PHLX to close in the first half of 2008.  

Sale of LSE Investment. In 2006, we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary Nightingale Acquisition Limited, or NAL, acquired an investment in the London Stock Exchange Group plc, or the LSE, at that time totaling approximately 28.8% of the issued ordinary share capital of the LSE. On September 25, 2007, we sold 28.0% of LSE’s share capital to Borse Dubai for approximately $1.6 billion in cash. On September 26, 2007, through open market transactions, we sold the remaining substantial balance of our holdings in the LSE for $193.5 million in cash. We used approximately $1.1 billion of the approximately $1.8 billion in total proceeds from the sale of the LSE shares to repay in full and terminate our then-outstanding credit facilities.  

Nasdaq History and Structure  

We were founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FINRA, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (then known as National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD), which operates subject to the oversight of the SEC. Beginning in 2000, FINRA restructured and broadened our ownership through a two-phase private placement of our securities. Securities in the private placements were offered to all FINRA members, as well as some investment companies and issuers listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market.  

In connection with the restructuring, on November 9, 2000, we applied to the SEC for registration as a national securities exchange. Prior to operating as an exchange, The Nasdaq Stock Market operated under a Delegation Plan approved by the SEC that provided a delegation of legal authority from FINRA to us to operate as a stock market. Although we exercised primary responsibility for market-related functions, including market-related rulemaking and interpretations, all actions taken pursuant to authority by FINRA were subject to review, ratification or rejection by the FINRA board of directors.  

2  

Table of Contents 

The SEC approved our application to register as a national securities exchange on January 13, 2006, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Upon fulfilling these conditions, The Nasdaq Stock Market began operating as a registered national securities exchange for Nasdaq-listed securities in August 2006 and as an exchange for non-Nasdaq-listed securities in February 2007. To facilitate our operation as a national securities exchange, we also formed The FINRA/Nasdaq Trade Reporting Facility LLC, or FINRA/Nasdaq TRF, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Through the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF we continue to collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchange. FINRA regulates the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF as one of its facilities. The FINRA/Nasdaq TRF began operating in August 2006 for Nasdaq-listed securities and in March 2007 for non-Nasdaq-listed securities.  

On December 20, 2006, we ceased to be a subsidiary of FINRA. FINRA maintained voting control over us through its ownership of the one outstanding share of our Series D preferred stock and FINRA consolidated our financial position and results of operations in its consolidated financial statements. In connection with the process of The Nasdaq Stock Market becoming a registered national securities exchange, Nasdaq was removed as a party to the Delegation Plan and we redeemed FINRA’s share of Series D preferred stock. FINRA achieved full divestiture of ownership of our common stock with the sale of its remaining shares of our common stock in July 2006.  

In August 2006, we adopted a holding company structure in connection with our registration as a national securities exchange. Our subsidiary, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, holds the operations of the exchange and our exchange license. In November 2006, we completed an internal reorganization that resulted in the transfer of ownership of some of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, to our exchange subsidiary.  

With exchange registration, Nasdaq received its own status as a self-regulatory organization, or SRO, through Nasdaq’s exchange subsidiary separate from that of FINRA. Pursuant to securities laws, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. As an SRO, The Nasdaq Stock Market has its own rules pertaining to its members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by FINRA. Broker-dealers may choose to become members of The Nasdaq Stock Market, in addition to their memberships with other SROs, including FINRA. See “—Nasdaq Regulation.” FINRA continues to provide regulatory services to us. See “—Nasdaq Regulation—Regulatory Services Agreement.” 

Nasdaq Products and Services  

We operate in two segments: Market Services and Issuer Services. Financial information about segments and geographic areas may be found in Note 20, “Segments,” to our consolidated financial statements.  

Market Services. Our Market Services segment includes our transaction-based business and our market information services business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Market Services revenues were $2,152.4 million, which represented 88.3% of Nasdaq’s total revenues. Market Services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees were $528.1 million, which represented 65.0% of total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements.  

Trade execution services. The Nasdaq Market Center is our transaction-based platform that provides market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in The Nasdaq Stock Market. Market participants include market makers, broker-dealers operating as electronic communication networks, or ECNs, registered securities exchanges and other broker-dealers. We provide these services for Nasdaq-listed and non-Nasdaq-listed securities. Specifically, The Nasdaq Market Center:  

   •    Provides a comprehensive display of the interest by our market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer).  

3  

Table of Contents 

   •    Provides subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The Nasdaq Market Center for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the Nasdaq Crossing Network, including the Opening, Closing, Halt, IPO, Intraday and Post-Close Crosses.  

   •    Provides anonymity to market participants, i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others.  

Our execution services generate revenues from:  

   •    Transaction execution charges, which are charges assessed on a per share basis to the party that accesses the liquidity provided by another market participant. In most circumstances, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge as a rebate (presented as cost of revenues) to the market participant that provides the liquidity (liquidity is the number and range of buy and sell orders available to our market participants). These charges represent our primary fee for execution services.  

   •    Our share of tape fees for the trading of securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and the American Stock Exchange, or Amex.  

Also, we pay fees to the SEC pursuant to Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Section 31 fees. These fees are recorded as execution and trade reporting revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. The Section 31 fees are designed to recover the costs to the government of supervision and regulation of securities markets and securities professionals. We collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market and recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. Section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the SEC is remitted semiannually and recorded as Section 31 fees payable to the SEC until paid. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees.  

To enhance market transparency, we introduced the Opening Cross and Closing Cross in 2004 and the Halt Cross and IPO Cross in 2006. The Opening Cross is a process for pre-market open trading and price discovery consisting of a centralized order facility that provides market participants and investors with a highly transparent and accurate opening price in securities listed on an exchange. Similarly, the Closing Cross is a centralized order facility that provides an orderly market close for securities listed on an exchange. The IPO Cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process to begin secondary trading of initial public offerings based on supply and demand. The Halt Cross is designed to provide executions utilizing a fair and transparent process when we resume trading in market halted securities. A new pegged order type that allows the price of an order to be pegged to the mid-point of the National Best Bid and Offer, or NBBO, was introduced in January 2007.  

We also introduced the Intraday and Post-Close Crosses, part of a new fully-anonymous trade execution facility designed to promote the execution of large trades, in July 2007. The Intraday and Post-Close Crosses provide market participants and investors with a highly efficient and accurate single price at specific times during the trading day, resulting in the discovery of larger pools of liquidity while minimizing market impact and associated price movements.  

In the first quarter of 2007, we completed our integration of The Nasdaq Market Center and the Brut and INET execution systems into a single trading platform. Nasdaq’s system integration, which is based on the INET platform, provides improved execution quality and speed, while maintaining the attributes of The Nasdaq Market Center, including market making functionality, attributed quotes, and the Nasdaq Crossing Network. Our system integration in Nasdaq-listed securities was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the system integration in non-Nasdaq-listed securities was completed in February 2007.  

4  

Table of Contents 

We currently provide connectivity and order routing to options exchanges. In the first half of 2008, subject to SEC approval, we expect to launch The NASDAQ Options Market, a new options trading platform. The trading platform will be designed to leverage our existing technology, which we acquired through the INET acquisition. In addition, the trading platform exchange will leverage our current customer connectivity and market structure. We are designing the trading platform to handle the options market transition from nickel and dime quoting increments to penny quoting increments.  

Trade reporting services. All registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. We provide three primary revenue-generating reporting services:  

   •    Trade reporting. Trades executed on The Nasdaq Stock Market are automatically reported by us under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. Currently, we do not charge market participants for reporting most of these trades. We do, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the Nasdaq Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, or UTP Plan, for Nasdaq-listed securities, under the Consolidated Tape Plan, or CTA Plan, for NYSE-listed securities and the Consolidated Quotation Plan, or CQ Plan, for Amex- and regional exchange-listed securities. In addition, the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF collects trade reports as a facility of FINRA. A large percentage of these trades result from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally, or internalized, and are submitted to the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF for reporting purposes only. The FINRA/Nasdaq TRF does not charge market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it does earn shared market information revenues with respect to the trades.  

   •    Trade comparison. The FINRA/Nasdaq TRF also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker-dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF for reporting and clearing.  

   •    Risk management. We provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers.  

Access services to our trading platform. We provide our market participants with several alternatives for accessing The Nasdaq Market Center for a fee. By shifting connectivity to The Nasdaq Market Center from proprietary networks to third-party networks, we have significantly reduced our technology and network costs and increased our systems’ scalability without affecting performance or reliability.  

The Nasdaq Market Center may be accessed using our Financial Information Exchange, or FIX, product that uses the FIX protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors. This product enables firms to leverage their existing FIX technology with cost-effective connections to The Nasdaq Market Center. We also have developed QIX, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates. Market participants may also access The Nasdaq Market Center using Computer-to-Computer interface, another protocol, which allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. Finally, firms may use former INET protocols to access our single trading platform. As an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, Nasdaq provides the New Nasdaq Workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports.  

We also provide co-location services to our market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. We charge these participants fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support.  

Market information. We collect and provide varying levels of analytical, quote and trade information to market participants and data vendors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public as part of our Nasdaq Market Services Subscriptions business. We collect information, distribute it and earn revenues as a member of the UTP Plan and as a distributor of our proprietary market data.  

5  

Table of Contents 

We operate as the exclusive Securities Information Processor as part of the UTP Plan for the collection and dissemination of the best bid and offer information and last transaction information from the exchanges and markets that quote and trade in Nasdaq-listed securities. We also are a participant in the UTP Plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. In our role as the Securities Information Processor, we collect and disseminate quotation and last sale information for all transactions in Nasdaq-listed securities whether on The Nasdaq Stock Market or other exchanges. We sell this information to data vendors, which the data vendors then sell to the public. After deducting costs associated with acting as an exclusive Securities Information Processor, we distribute the tape fees to the respective UTP Plan participants, including us, based on a combination of the participants’ respective trading share and quoting share as determined by the Regulation NMS formula. In addition, all Nasdaq Market Center trades in exchange-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on NYSE- and Amex-listed securities.  

Interested parties also can receive real-time quote and trade information beyond the best bid and offer quotes through a number of proprietary products that we offer. We use our broad distribution network of market data vendors and market participants (1,475 as of December 31, 2007) to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. We offer a range of proprietary data products, including TotalView, our flagship market depth quote product. TotalView shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The Nasdaq Market Center for Nasdaq-listed securities and critical data for the Nasdaq Crossing Network.  

TotalView is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. We also offer a TotalView Enterprise License to facilitate broad based distribution of this data to large audiences. During 2007, our TotalView professional subscribers increased by over 34% (excluding non-paying internal users and users via the Nasdaq Workstation product). In addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee.  

We operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include:  

   •    Nasdaq DataStore, one aspect of Nasdaq’s initiative to use plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content. NASDAQ Pre, the Nasdaq Daily Share Volume Report, and Nasdaq Pathfinders were new products introduced in beta form in 2007 via the Nasdaq DataStore;  

   •    Nasdaq Market Analytix, a suite of data products including Nasdaq Market Forces and Nasdaq Velocity designed to provide market insights based on calculations performed on the data that is provided to Nasdaq’s execution services;  

   •    ModelView, a product designed to provide greater insight into the patterns of liquidity in The Nasdaq Market Center;  

   •    OpenView, a product providing complete depth-of-book liquidity for The Nasdaq Market Center in NYSE- and Amex-listed securities;  

   •    Mutual Fund Quotation Service, a listing service for over 25,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds;  

   •    Mutual Fund Dissemination Service, a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds listed with us;  

   •    Nasdaq Index Dissemination Service, a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and ETFs;  

   •    Nasdaq.com, a leading financial website for the investor community that generates revenues from advertising and product sales; and  

6  

Table of Contents 

   •    NasdaqTrader.com, a financial website that provides broker-dealers and market data vendors with information and data regarding our corporate initiatives (such as the Nasdaq Crossing Network) and other products and services for a monthly subscription fee.  

Issuer Services. Our Issuer Services segment includes our securities listings business, insurance business, shareholder, directors and newswire services and our financial products business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Issuer Services accounted for revenues of $283.9 million, which represented 11.7% of our total revenues and 35.0% of our total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage clearance and exchange fees. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements.  

Securities listings business. We have operated our securities listings business as the Corporate Client Group, which provides customer support services and products to Nasdaq-listed companies and is responsible for obtaining new listings on The Nasdaq Stock Market. More companies list on The Nasdaq Stock Market than any other U.S. market.  

We aggressively pursue new listings from companies undergoing IPOs. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we attracted 62% of the IPOs eligible for listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market and 36% of the IPOs eligible for listing on the NYSE.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Companies seeking to list securities on The Nasdaq Stock Market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. Once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. The Nasdaq Stock Market currently has three tiers of listed companies: The Nasdaq Global Select Market, The Nasdaq Global Market and The Nasdaq Capital Market. Our top listing tier, The Nasdaq Global Select Market, has the highest initial listing standards in the world. All three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards and issuers listing on these markets have the opportunity to leverage an array of Nasdaq corporate services.  

As of December 31, 2007, a total of 1,156 companies listed securities on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, 1,478 companies listed securities on The Nasdaq Global Market and 501 companies listed securities on The Nasdaq Capital Market. During 2007, 290 new companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market, with 36 listings on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, 183 on The Nasdaq Global Market and 71 on The Nasdaq Capital Market. During 2006, 285 new companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market, with 19 listings on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, 216 on The Nasdaq Global Market and 50 on The Nasdaq Capital Market.  

In 2007, a total of 32 companies switched their listing to The Nasdaq Stock Market from the NYSE or Amex. In 2006, a total of 30 companies switched from Amex, and Liberty Media Corporation, Innospec Inc., Computer Task Group, Inc. and E*TRADE Financial switched from the NYSE.  

Notable listings in 2007 included the IPOs of National CineMedia, Inc., MerueloMaddux Properties and Clearwire Corporation and the switches from NYSE of DirecTV, and from Amex of Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc., National Beverage Corp. and PowerSecure International. Nasdaq also saw several notable industrial listings, including the IPOs of Orion Energy Systems, Inc. and Greek shipping company Paragon Shipping Inc. and the Amex switch of Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc.  

7  

Table of Contents 

We also have attracted listings from foreign companies seeking to access U.S. capital markets. Notable non-U.S. new listings in 2007 included the switch of Star Bulk Carriers Corp. from the Amex and the IPOs of MercadoLibre, Inc. from Argentina, lululemon athletica from Canada, VisionChina Media Inc. from China, and Castlepoint Holdings Ltd. from Bermuda. We had a total of 309 foreign companies listed on our markets at December 31, 2007 and 323 at December 31, 2006.  

Since 2004, we have permitted NYSE-listed issuers to dually list their stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market. As of December 31, 2007, securities of 11 companies were dual listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market and NYSE. We continue to target companies about joining the dual-listing program.  

Each year some companies cease listing with us for several reasons. In 2007, 348 companies ceased listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market. Companies cease listing for the following reasons: failing to meet our listing standards (approximately 14% of delistings in 2007), merger and acquisition activity (approximately 64%) and, to a lesser extent, for other reasons such as switching to another listing venue (approximately 22%). During 2007, the 348 delistings were offset by 132 IPOs and 158 other added listings. There were 285 added listings and 303 delistings in 2006.  

We charge issuers an initial listing fee, a listing of additional shares fee and an annual fee. The initial listing fee for securities listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market includes a listing application fee and a total shares outstanding fee. The fee for listing of additional shares is based on the total shares outstanding, which we review quarterly. Annual fees for securities listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market are based on total shares outstanding. Initial listing and listing of additional shares fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are six and four years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience, pursuant to the requirements of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 13: Revenue Recognition, or SAB Topic 13.  

In February 2007, the SEC approved a new pricing structure for our annual listing fees. This new schedule generally increased the annual and listing of additional shares fees listed companies pay to us, as well as the initial listing fee to list on The Nasdaq Capital Market.  

After the initial listing, our Corporate Client Group provides customer support services, products and programs to Nasdaq-listed companies. To offer additional services to our listed companies, in 2005 we acquired Carpenter Moore and the remaining 50% interest in the Nasdaq Insurance Agency, LLC, independent insurance brokerage firms. In 2006, we acquired Shareholder.com, a firm specializing in shareholder communications and investor relations intelligence services and PrimeNewswire, a firm specializing in press release newswire and multimedia services. In 2007, we acquired Directors Desk LLC, a firm providing technology to board members of public and private companies in the United States and abroad.  

Financial products business. We develop and license Nasdaq-branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of Nasdaq Financial Products. We believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the Nasdaq brand. License fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on assets or number or underlying dollar value of contracts issued. In addition to generating licensing revenues for Nasdaq, these products, particularly mutual funds and ETFs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market, which enhances our ability to attract new listings.  

Our flagship index, the Nasdaq-100 Index, includes the top 100 non-financial companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market. Nasdaq indexes are the basis for over 600 financial products in 36 countries. Nasdaq also licenses cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on its indexes.  

Nasdaq Financial Products, through its PORTAL Market, facilitates the eligibility for clearing and settlement services at The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, or DTCC, of PORTAL/Rule 144A securities. In 2007 and in 2006, we continued to facilitate the processing service for Rule 144A eligible securities through PORTAL with over 2,400 and 2,700 applications processed, respectively. In August 2007, we launched   

8  

Table of Contents 

 our PORTAL Trading System, a system allowing for online trading of equity securities pursuant to Rule 144A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933. The PORTAL Market id designed to be a comprehensive offering including capital formation, trading, data and financial products.  

On November 12, 2007, we and a group of leading securities firms announced our intention to form The PORTAL Alliance, an industry standard facility designated to serve the market for 144A equity securities. The PORTAL Alliance will work with third-party service providers to create an open, industry-standard facility for the private offering, trading, shareholder tracking and settlement of unregistered equity securities sold to qualified institutional buyers.  

Fee Changes  

We may change the pricing of our products and services in response to competitive pressures or changes in market or general economic conditions. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, Nasdaq must file all proposals for a change in its pricing structure with the SEC. We provide updated information on the pricing of our products and services on our website at www.nasdaqtrader.com. See also “—Competition” and “Risk Factors—The securities market business is highly competitive.”  

Technology  

Over the past six years, we have reduced our technology costs, consistent with our regulatory obligations, by migrating to fewer, less expensive technology platforms, introducing less expensive network solutions, and by reducing our workforce. Our transaction speed throughput and system reliability has been enhanced by our migration to the INET platform.  

The Nasdaq Market Center systems are located in a processing complex in our Northeast Data Center. The systems have handled trade volume of over six billion shares daily and routinely handle over 250,000 transactions per second and are designed to maximize transaction reliability and network security across each of the most critical system services that comprise The Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, our systems have the ability to handle increased capacity. To maximize reliability, we have developed a backup system in the event the primary systems are unable to perform.  

Market data from our quote and trade execution systems are transferred via high-speed communications links to a market data repository and are available for real-time analysis, historical analysis, market surveillance and regulation, and data mining. The information is provided to applications and users through relational databases, higher-level access facilities and Internet applications.  

Intellectual Property  

We own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and in foreign countries. For example, our primary “NASDAQ” mark is a registered trademark in the United States and in over 50 other countries worldwide. We also maintain copyright protection in our Nasdaq-branded materials and pursue patent protection for Nasdaq-developed inventions and processes. We currently have 11 issued United States patents and approximately 58 pending applications, some of which also are filed in foreign jurisdictions.  

Nasdaq Acquisition Strategy  

We have grown our business through acquisitions since 2004. Our strategy for acquisitions is to identify and acquire only those elements that are most important to our success. We integrated the key components of the Brut technology and the Brut team into Nasdaq in 2005 and completed the integration of INET and the migration   

9  

Table of Contents 

 of its customers to the INET platform in 2007. Consistent with this focused approach, we acquired Carpenter Moore, Shareholder.com, PrimeNewswire and Directors Desk to meet the specific needs of listed companies and other customers. In 2007, we entered into definitive agreements to combine with OMX and to acquire the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the Boston Stock Exchange.  

Nasdaq Regulation  

Federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. The SEC occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. SROs, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. The Nasdaq Stock Market is an SRO. SROs, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the SEC and are subject to the SEC’s extensive regulation and oversight.  

This regulatory framework applies to our business in the following ways:  

   •    regulation of The Nasdaq Stock Market; and  

   •    regulation of our broker-dealer subsidiaries.  

The rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. While we believe that regulation improves the quality of The Nasdaq Stock Market and, therefore, our company, these rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders. Federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. Any subsequent change in law or regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results.  

Regulation of The Nasdaq Stock Market. With exchange registration, we received our own SRO status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of FINRA. As an SRO, we have our own rules pertaining to our members and listed companies regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable to broker-dealers that are administered by FINRA. Broker-dealers may choose to become members of The Nasdaq Stock Market, in addition to their other SRO memberships, including membership in FINRA.  

As the operator of a national securities exchange, virtually all facets of our operations are subject to the SEC’s oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act, and we are subject to periodic and special examinations by the SEC. We also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. We have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the SEC. To the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. We are also subject to Section 17 of the Exchange Act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make certain records available to the SEC for examination.  

SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on the SROs many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members.  

Section 19 of the Exchange Act provides that we must submit proposed changes to any of the SRO rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute SRO rules, to the SEC. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC’s action is designed to   

10  

Table of Contents 

 ensure that applicable SRO rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. If the SEC disapproves a proposal that we have submitted, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, we must file all proposals for a change in our pricing structure with the SEC.  

We sought to preserve a regulatory separation upon operation as a national securities exchange. FINRA provides regulatory services to The Nasdaq Stock Market, including the regulation of trading activity on the exchange and surveillance and investigative functions. We have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring through our MarketWatch department. This department, among other things, monitors for trades whose prices are away from the current market and initiates trading halts as necessary. Suspicious trading behavior discovered by MarketWatch staff and all other Nasdaq employees is referred to FINRA for further investigation. FINRA performs the surveillance and investigative functions for Nasdaq. We have preserved this regulatory separation now that we are operational as a national securities exchange.  

We have additional regulatory functions related to companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market that are handled by our Listing Qualifications department. This department is responsible for maintaining a compliance-monitoring and enforcement program with respect to our requirements for initial and continued listing. Companies that wish to list on The Nasdaq Stock Market are required to satisfy a variety of quantitative and qualitative requirements to become listed and to continue to be listed, including all our corporate governance listing standards. Companies that fail to maintain compliance with these requirements are subject to delisting. To provide regulatory transparency and assist issuers in maintaining compliance, our Listing Qualifications department provides written interpretations with respect to the application of our listing requirements and maintains a website providing interpretive guidance.  

When we transferred our own listing from the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB, to the Nasdaq National Market in 2005, the SEC approved special listing standards with respect to listing our common stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market. These listing standards require periodic reporting of compliance to the SEC and an annual compliance audit by an independent accounting firm. Our failure to maintain compliance with these listing standards could result in our common stock being delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market.  

Regulatory Services Agreement. FINRA provides us with regulatory services, including the regulation of trading activity on The Nasdaq Stock Market and the surveillance and investigative functions of The Nasdaq Stock Market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement and a transitional regulatory agreement discussed below. The regulatory services agreement became effective for Nasdaq-listed securities in August 2006 and for non-Nasdaq-listed securities in March 2007. Prior to the effectiveness of the regulatory services agreement, FINRA provided regulatory services to us pursuant to the Delegation Plan. We paid FINRA $28.9 million in 2007, $33.8 million in 2006 and $41.8 million in 2005 for regulatory services.  

Under the regulatory services agreement, FINRA will provide regulatory services to us for 10 years commencing August 1, 2006. The services are of the same type and scope as were provided by FINRA to us under the Delegation Plan. Each regulatory service is to be provided for a minimum of five years, then the parties may determine to terminate a particular service. The termination of a particular service will generally be based upon a review of pricing and the need for such services. Under the agreement, FINRA bills us a fee for each required service provided that it is based on FINRA’s direct and indirect costs plus a markup of six percent on compensation costs related to FINRA’s employees used to provide the services. Any services other than those required by the agreement are billed at cost, plus a mutually agreed upon markup.  

Under the regulatory services agreement, FINRA:  

   •    reviews and approves new member applications;  

   •    performs automated surveillance of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market;  

11  

Table of Contents 

   •    reviews member firm compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to trading and market-making functions in The Nasdaq Stock Market;  

   •    investigates suspicious activity in quoting and trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market;  

   •    conducts examinations of member firms;  

   •    initiates the disciplinary process once it is determined that a potential violation of a federal securities law or rule, or an SRO rule, may have occurred; and  

   •    operates an arbitration program and a mediation program for the resolution of customer, member firm employee, and Nasdaq member-to-member disputes.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. Nasdaq’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, the SROs and the various state securities regulators. We acquired three broker-dealers, Brut, LLC, INET ATS, Inc. and Island Execution Services, LLC, in connection with recent acquisitions. In February 2006, INET ATS, Inc., the entity which operated the INET ECN, was merged into Brut, LLC, with Brut, LLC as the surviving entity. Subsequently, Brut, LLC was renamed Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC. Nasdaq Execution Services currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from The Nasdaq Market Center to other venues for execution. In 2006, Island Execution Services, LLC was renamed NASDAQ Options Services, LLC. NASDAQ Options Services is expected to serve as the options routing broker-dealer for Nasdaq’s new options market when it is launched.  

Nasdaq Execution Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of the NYSE, FINRA, Amex, BSX, Chicago Stock Exchange, International Securities Exchange, Pacific Stock Exchange, PHLX, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Chicago Board Options Exchange and National Stock Exchange. NASDAQ Options Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of FINRA, the Amex, BSX, International Securities Exchange, Pacific Stock Exchange, PHLX and The Nasdaq Stock Market.  

The SEC, NYSE and FINRA adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. The SEC and SRO rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer’s business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers’ purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. All broker-dealers have an SRO that is assigned by the SEC as the broker-dealer’s designated examining authority, or DEA. The DEA is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the SEC’s financial responsibility rules. FINRA is the DEA for both Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services. A failure to comply with the SEC’s request in a satisfactory manner may have adverse consequences and changing the DEA may entail additional regulatory costs.  

As registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital.  

As of December 31, 2007, Nasdaq Execution Services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $18.9 million, or $18.6 million in excess of the minimum   

12  

Table of Contents 

 amount required. As of December 31, 2007, NASDAQ Options Services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $4.7 million, or $4.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required.  

Industry  

The liberalization and globalization of world financial markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets, greater trading volumes and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. As a result, the competition among U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based markets and other execution venues has become more intense. The increased globalization of world markets also has increased the need for regulatory cooperation between markets in different jurisdictions.  

Industry growth is driven by additional demand for active and transaction-intensive asset management, the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms, significantly enhanced technology, increased participation from retail investors and regulatory changes both in Europe and in the U.S. Globally, investors continue to demand greater efficiency in trading securities, new sophisticated order types, seamless trading across asset classes and markets, and ever better performance of trading platforms, which we expect will continue to fuel growth in volumes, irrespective of the macroeconomic environment.  

Recent regulatory changes have been implemented to eliminate trading barriers between exchanges and to increase efficiency for investors. The adoption of Regulation NMS in the U.S. and the current implementation of the European Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID, aim to promote and ensure market center competition, order interaction and price transparency so that investors may enjoy lower transaction costs and more flexibility to trade financial assets in a number of different locations and methods. The most significant change in the U.S. is that every broker and exchange is obligated to route orders to any market center showing a better price. In Europe, the corresponding effect of MFID is that every broker will be forced to route orders to the market centers with the best execution performance, including price, speed, liquidity and reliability. In both cases, the effect is expected to be increased performance-based competition among market centers.  

As a result of these industry trends, an exchange’s scale and technology have become very important factors in maintaining competitive advantages. Scale allows for greater liquidity pools, which is a critical criterion for where investor order flow is directed. In addition, scale provides an exchange with operating leverage by processing a growing number of transactions over an existing technology platform, which we believe improves profitability. Given the recent regulatory changes in the U.S. and Europe, as well as the continued evolution of investor requirements, technology capabilities have become even more important because order flow will be driven to those exchange providers that provide the best execution performance and multi-asset trading capabilities over an integrated platform.  

The global cash equity exchange industry  

Cash equities exchanges provide a broad set of services, including corporate listing services, trade execution, market information and in certain instances clearing and settlement services, in both the U.S. and internationally. The main function of a cash equities exchange is fair, transparent and efficient price discovery for listed securities. Exchanges meet this objective by operating interactive marketplaces, either through electronic networks, or with increasing rarity, on physical trading floors, where buyers and sellers interact and, as such, they are under strict regulatory surveillance according to established rules and regulations.  

From 1996 through 2006, reported cash equities volume traded has experienced growth of approximately 121% on a global basis. The key drivers of cash equities trading volume growth are: improved trading technology, growth in alternative investment vehicles (i.e., hedge funds) and lower trading costs.  

   •    Advances in technology have increased communication speed, improved information availability, facilitated the globalization of trading, and lowered transaction costs. These developments also create new opportunities for regulators to improve the trading environment. As regulators level the playing   

13  

Table of Contents 

 field, market participants are continuing their innovation. For example, advances in algorithmic trading are expected to account for a rapidly increasing share of total trading volume. Algorithmic trading is expected to account for almost 25% of total global trading volume by 2008 up from only 14% in 2003. According to research by Celent, LLC, this rapid trade volume growth is being driven by increasingly sophisticated trading tools, as well as improved pre- and post-trade analytics.  

   •    Hedge funds, which often rely on higher-volume trading strategies, have experienced a CAGR of approximately 16% in assets under management from 2000 through 2006. Although hedge funds represent just 5% of all U.S. assets under management, they account for approximately 30% of all U.S. equity trading volume, according to the SEC.  

   •    Fees charged by major exchanges, governmental and regulatory bodies, and intermediaries have, on a per transaction basis, decreased considerably. According to research by ITG, a recognized data analytics firm, trading costs have fallen by approximately 35% for large investors over the past two years. These lower transaction fees encourage increased participation by all market participants, from the largest institutional investors to individual retail investors.  

Market organization trends  

The exchange industry has been undergoing a historic reorganization. Beginning with the demutualization of many major exchanges worldwide, exchange providers have been seeking greater economies of scale and broader scope both geographically and by asset class. Globally, market participants are demanding greater performance and flexibility from exchanges. At the same time, regulatory initiatives such as Regulation NMS in the U.S. and MiFID in Europe have caused shifts in both exchange business models and boundaries.  

More recently, mergers and acquisitions have played a pivotal role in changing the exchange landscape. Nasdaq has agreed to combine with OMX and acquire PHLX and BSX, in addition to its acquisition of INET in December 2005 and Brut in September 2004. In 2007, the NYSE merged with Euronext after acquiring Archipelago Holdings, the parent of the Pacific Exchange and the Archipelago ECN, in 2006. In addition, in early 2008, NYSE agreed to acquire Amex. In July 2007, the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange merged, forming one of the largest financial exchanges in the world. Several broker-dealers have purchased or created equity ECNs and other trading platforms. Most of these new entrants have limited liquidity, however. Additionally, in both the U.S. and Europe, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform.  

European exchanges have also been active participants in the changing face of the industry. In 2002, Euronext was formed through the merger of the Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris exchanges. Euronext subsequently acquired the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, or LIFFE, and the Portuguese exchange, Bolsa de Valores de Lisboa e Porto. In June 2007, LSE acquired Borsa Italiana while Deutsche Börse acquired the International Securities Exchange in the U.S. in April 2007. In November 2006, OMX acquired the Iceland Stock Exchange and in October 2006 purchased a minority stake in the Oslo Stock Exchange. In addition to merger and acquisition activity, there have been several attempts by exchanges to establish subsidiary markets outside their home countries.  

Principal exchange activities  

Equities trading function. Both in the U.S. as well as in Europe, there is tremendous competition between exchanges and ECNs seeking to be the venue on which equity securities are traded. Currently in the U.S., exchange-listed securities trade not just on the exchange on which they are listed, but also through other market centers including ECNs and regional exchanges. After the full implementation of MiFID, similar trading rules will commence in Europe. As a result, regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and cost of trade execution should become increasingly relevant.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Listing function. The market for listing services is primarily dependent on the economy, access to and costs for alternative sources of financing as well as the perception of the attractiveness of exchange listing and financing. Registered securities exchanges provide a venue for corporate and ETF issuers to list their equity securities for trading by market participants worldwide. There is substantial competition for listings, which are gained either through an IPO by a private company, an upgrade from the over-the-counter market, or OTC, or listing switches gained at the expense of a competitor.  

Market data function. Demand from investors for high quality information to inform investment decisions is very strong. Since an increasingly large portion of trading today is automated, requirements for the speed of information delivery are also escalating. Laws, regulations and increasing demand from investors for reliable information provided on a real-time basis are all driving the development of the market for communications tools. Companies use these tools to distribute information to the media, analysts, professional traders and private investors in an efficient manner.  

The equity exchange industry in the U.S.  

Equities trading function. The main participants in the U.S. cash equities marketplace are The Nasdaq Stock Market, the NYSE, the Amex, a number of regional exchanges (Chicago and the National Stock Exchange in Cincinnati) and ECNs (sometimes referred to as alternative trading systems, or ATS).  

The Nasdaq Stock Market serves as one of two principal market centers for buying and selling exchange-listed securities in the U.S. Additionally, there are other exchange trading venues such as Amex and regional exchanges. Unlike the specialist-based or hybrid markets, such as Amex or NYSE, The Nasdaq Stock Market is a fully electronic, screen-based, enhance order book system where market makers’ bids and offers can be reviewed and accessed for automatic execution by all market participants at any time. In addition, The Nasdaq Stock Market system provides a mechanism for all market participants (i.e., both order entry firms and brokers or market makers) to post non-marketable limit orders and to access posted limit orders both for their own account and when representing their customers on an agency basis, further enhancing liquidity.  

The average daily trading volume on U.S. exchanges increased from 3.1 billion in the year ended December 31, 2000 to 6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Total U.S. equity trading volumes grew approximately 25.7% during 2007 as compared the prior year. Industry growth is driven by economic expansion, increased volatility, lower trading costs and the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms with significantly enhanced trading technology that provides faster execution speeds. Growth in U.S. trading has also been significantly influenced by increased participation from retail and overseas investors and regulatory changes.  

Listing function. The Nasdaq Stock Market and the NYSE are the primary listing venues for equity securities in the U.S. Additionally, the Amex has a smaller number of listings. At December 31, 2007, there were 3,135 listings on The Nasdaq Stock Market.  

Of the 213 IPOs on U.S. equity markets during 2007, 132, or approximately 62%, chose to list on The Nasdaq Stock Market, raising approximately $16.8 billion in equity capital, while the remainder listed on the NYSE. Of the 206 IPOs on U.S. equity markets during 2006, 137, or approximately 67%, chose to list on The Nasdaq Stock Market, raising approximately $17.4 billion in equity capital, while the remainder listed on the NYSE or other markets.  

Market data function. Nasdaq serves as one of two central providers of real-time quote and trade data for U.S. exchange listed securities. It acts jointly with other national securities exchanges to collect and disseminate a consolidated stream of quotation and transaction information under national market system plans approved by the SEC. Nasdaq is the central provider of data for Nasdaq-listed securities and NYSE is the central provider of data for NYSE and Amex-listed securities.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Regulation NMS. Regulation NMS, which was fully implemented in 2007, has been a key driver behind the changes in execution services and market data businesses in the U.S. The following information describes the key directives of the regulation.  

   •    Best price rule: Among the most significant provisions of Regulation NMS are order protection, also referred to as the “best price” rule, and fair access regulations. The order protection rule requires exchanges and other trading centers to establish procedures designed to prevent the execution of trades at prices inferior to “protected” quotations displayed by other exchanges. Under the order protection rule, each exchange must interact with any market center offering a superior price before it can execute a trade at an inferior price on its systems for other reasons (such as trade size).  

   •    Fair access rule: The access rule requires market centers to provide fair and non-discriminatory access to quotations, establishes a limit on access fees to harmonize the pricing of quotations across different trading centers and requires all exchanges to maintain written rules that prohibit their members from displaying quotations that lock or cross automated quotations.  

   •    Market information rule: Regulation NMS also contains several market data rules that update the requirements for consolidating, distributing and displaying market information. These rules amend the current plans which disseminate consolidated market information by modifying the formulas for allocating plan revenues and broadening participation in plan governance.  

   •    Sub-penny rule: The sub-penny rule prohibits market participants from displaying quotations in pricing increments smaller than a penny, with exceptions for quotes and orders priced at less than $1.00 per share.  

Outlook and future trends  

Trading volume in both the U.S. and European equity markets has continued to grow meaningfully over the past few years. Industry growth is being driven by additional demand for active and transaction-intensive asset management, the shift away from floor-based to electronic trading platforms, lower transaction costs, narrow spreads, significantly enhanced technology, increased participation from retail investors and regulatory changes. As pension funds and institutional investors shift greater allocations to hedge funds and alternative asset managers who use sophisticated and complex trading strategies, volumes are expected to continue to increase. The strategies implemented by these investors, including quantitative and program trading models are transaction-intensive. Electronic trading has enabled buyside traders to access the market with minimal infrastructure or systems costs. Furthermore, as sellside trading firms have grown operations and pushed toward faster and more automated trading, volumes have increased substantially, creating value not only for trading firms, but for the exchanges handling the trading.  

At the same time, macro and demographic trends are helping to drive ongoing volume growth. The rising life expectancy of an aging population is forcing a larger absolute number of investors to seek higher returns in the global equity markets. This is also contributing to changes for traditional institutional investors whose focus was to ensure that their own investment strategy was more profitable than a comparative index. Today, demand is instead directed toward more stable returns, measured in absolute terms over a longer period, for which more active and transaction-intensive management is required. An increasing number of hedge funds have entered the industry to cater to this increased institutional demand. Other participants, such as traditional pension funds, are adopting new investment strategies and are also becoming increasingly active in their management. At the same time, the use of more advanced and innovative methods and technologies for securities trading is spreading, resulting in an increasing number of transactions and a higher turnover rate.  

16  

Table of Contents 

Competition  

The equity securities markets are intensely competitive. We compete in our industry against the NYSE, Amex, regional exchanges and ECNs based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of our markets, the quality of our value-added customer services, reputation and price In addition, recent cross-border mergers, such as the merger of NYSE and Euronext, and the continuing trend toward global consolidation among the exchanges may be expected to result in competition on a more global scale.  

In recent years, the marketplace has been altered by the entry of new ECNs in the trade execution business and market participants’ acquisition and investment in existing ECNs or regional exchanges. For example, TradeBot launched the Better Alternative Trading System, or BATS ECN in 2006. Following the launch, a number of major investment firms including Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan, Citigroup, Merrill Lynch & Co., Morgan Stanley, Lehman Bros. Holdings Inc., Lime Brokerage LLC, Credit Suisse, GETCO Holdings Co. LLC and Wedbush Inc. have made minority investments in BATS. Also in 2006, Citigroup announced its acquisition of OnTrade, Inc. from NexTrade, and Knight Capital Group, Inc. acquired Attain (Direct Edge) in 2005. Citadel Derivatives Group and Goldman Sachs Group subsequently made investments in Direct Edge. Additional new entrants may emerge, potentially posing a competitive threat to more established industry participants. While many of the new entrants have limited liquidity, some have attracted significant levels of equity order volume through aggressive pricing and, we believe, from volume originating with their broker-dealer investors. In addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform.  

Also, other regional exchanges, such as the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., the National Stock Exchange and the International Securities Exchange have recently entered into investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges.  

Equity Securities Trading. We experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. Our principal competitors for trading equity securities in the U.S. include NYSE, Amex, the regional exchanges and ECNs. Many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. As a result, we also implemented pricing changes in 2007 to lower certain trading fees. We periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive.  

Data Services. Our revenues from the sale of market information products and services are also under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade Nasdaq-listed securities. Current SEC regulations permit these regional exchanges and FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility to quote and trade Nasdaq-listed securities. Trade reporting facilities regulated by FINRA are also operated by Nasdaq and one regional exchange and are proposed by other exchanges. Nasdaq’s UTP Plan entitles these exchanges, FINRA’s Alternate Display Facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of UTP Plan tape fees, in proportion to such exchange’s share of trading as measured by dollar volume and number of qualified trades. Nasdaq’s UTP Plan also entitles exchanges to a share of UTP Plan tape fees based on their quoting activity. Participants in the UTP Plan have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. In January 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the Nasdaq General Revenue Sharing Program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to The Nasdaq Market Center. We continuously evaluate and refine both programs. To remain competitive, in July 2006, we changed the terms of the program and established a new Nasdaq Data Revenue Sharing Program. We recently proposed changing the program effective first quarter 2008 and may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures.  

We are also responding aggressively to competition by updating and innovating new data products to provide market participants with increased functionality and new and more extensive market information.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Listings. Our primary competitor for larger company listings on The Nasdaq Stock Market is the NYSE. We also compete, to a limited extent, with Amex for listing of smaller, less active companies. As result of the NYSE-Archipelago merger and proposed NYSE-Amex merger, the NYSE group is aggressively pursuing listings of smaller companies that have not historically qualified for listing on the NYSE for listing on its junior market. In addition, we face competition for listing of foreign companies.  

Financial Products. Nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other ETFs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. The source of this competition is not only large ETF family sponsors, but also, increasingly, other mutual fund sponsors originating ETFs.  

Likewise, The Nasdaq Stock Market is subject to intense competition for the listing of these financial products from other exchanges. The indexes on which these products are based face competition from other indexes which can be considered competitive with Nasdaq indexes. For example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and may from time to time have a high degree of correlation with the Nasdaq-100 Index and Nasdaq Composite Index. We face competition from investment banks, markets or other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs.  

Employees  

As of February 14, 2008, we had 891 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. Nasdaq considers its relations with its employees to be good.  

Nasdaq Website and Availability of SEC Filings  

We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us). The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.  

Our website is www.nasdaq.com. Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. We will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to Nasdaq’s website and click on “Investor Relations,” then click on “Financial Information—SEC Filings.”  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.