ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's liquidity depends on SCE's ability to pay dividends and tax allocation payments to Edison International.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and its ability to make upstream distributions. Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. In addition, CPUC holding company rules require that SCE's dividend policy be established by SCE's Board of Directors on the same basis as if SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of both Edison International and SCE. SCE may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation agreements. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's liquidity. See "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison" below for further discussion.

The Bankruptcy Court may not approve the Settlement Transaction, or even if the Settlement Transaction is approved, it may not be consummated if certain conditions are not met. If the Settlement Transaction is not approved and consummated, Edison International may not be entitled to receive certain benefits contemplated by the Support Agreement.

On the Petition Date, EME and its wholly-owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court.

Under the Support Agreement to which EME, Edison International and certain of EME's senior unsecured noteholders are parties, each of them has agreed to support Bankruptcy Court approval of the Settlement Transaction, subject to conditions. If the Settlement Transaction is approved and consummated, EME will be required to perform its obligations under its tax allocation and intercompany services agreements with Edison International, to indemnify Edison International against liabilities arising from EME's conduct of its separate business, and Edison International, EME and the EME noteholders who have signed the Support Agreement will exchange releases of claims in accordance with the terms of the Support Agreement.

Under the Support Agreement, within 150 days following the Petition Date, EME will seek authority from the Bankruptcy Court to enter into the Settlement Transaction. The parties to the Support Agreement will seek approval by the Bankruptcy Court within 210 days following the Petition Date of the Settlement Transaction, which includes the benefits to Edison International described above. If the Bankruptcy Court does not grant approval within that period, the Support Agreement is subject to termination. There can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve the Settlement Transaction, and even if it is approved, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the effectiveness of the Settlement Transaction will be satisfied. In addition, EME is entitled to terminate the Support Agreement and consider alternative transactions in accordance with its fiduciary duties. If the Settlement Transaction is not approved, absent a separate agreement, Edison International will not receive the benefits described above.

Edison International's future performance may be affected by southern California events.

While Edison International intends to continue to conduct both regulated and competitive businesses in the future, the bankruptcy of EME has resulted in its current business being concentrated almost entirely in the regulated sector and in southern California. As a result, Edison International's future performance may be affected by events concentrated in southern California and it does not have diversification of sources of revenue or regulatory oversight.

13

RISKS RELATING TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulatory Risks

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, moderating demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. Increases in self-generation also reduce the pool of customers from whom fixed costs are recovered, while costs potentially could increase due to system modifications that may be necessary to cope with the systemic effects of self-generation. Customers that self-generate their own power do not currently pay most transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges, subject to limitations. The net result is to increase utility rates further for those customers who do not self-generate, which encourages more self-generation and further rate increases. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or modify its rate design to recover material amounts of its costs (including an adequate return on capital) in rates in a timely manner, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Management Overview—2012 General Rate Case" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—FERC Formula Rates" in the MD&A.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could materially affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, and through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes to commodity prices. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations, see "Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. Among other things, the CPUC regulates SCE's retail rates and capital structure, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale rates. The NRC regulates the safety of SCE's nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for thermal power plants 50 MW or greater) and the CPUC.

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be materially affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by concerted community opposition and such delay or defeat would have a material effect on SCE's business.

This extensive governmental regulation creates significant risks and uncertainties for SCE's business. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, or its facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs. In addition, regulation adopted via the public initiative process may apply to SCE, or its facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs.

14

Competitive Risks

SCE faces increased competition as a result of technological advancements.

The electricity industry is undergoing transformative change. Technological advancements such as energy storage and distributed generation may change the nature of energy generation and delivery. These changes may materially affect SCE's business model as a regulated utility and its ability to compete with new energy generation and delivery business models.

Operating Risks

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In order to mitigate this risk, SCE is engaged in a significant and ongoing infrastructure investment programs. This substantial investment program elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs, system limitations and degradation, and interruptions in necessary supplies.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters, including storms, wildfires and earthquakes, can disrupt the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver power to SCE's customers. These events can lead to lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs. They can also result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if SCE encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers. These occurrences could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the inability to restore power to SCE's customers could also materially damage the business reputation of SCE and Edison International.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with power lines or electrical equipment. Injuries and property damage caused by such contact can subject SCE to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. In the wake of recent natural disasters such as windstorms, which can cause wildfires, pole failures and associated property damage and outages, the CPUC has increased its focus on public safety issues with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant but are very difficult to predict. The range of possible penalties and liabilities includes amounts that could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations.

SCE's systems and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators, such as the NERC, and U.S. Government Departments, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have noted that the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures have potential vulnerabilities to cyber attacks and disruptions and that such cyber threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. SCE's operations require the continuous operation of critical information technology systems and network infrastructure. Although SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield such systems and infrastructure from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality. If SCE's information technology systems security measures were to be breached or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations. See "Item 1. Business—Regulation—NERC" for further discussion.

There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities, including, among other things, the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear power generating facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials.

15

The scope of necessary repairs for the steam generators in Unit 2 and Unit 3 of San Onofre or the length of the Units' outages could prove more extensive than is currently estimated. The cost of such repairs or the substitute market power that must be purchased during the outage could exceed estimates and insurance coverage or may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise.

Units 2 and 3 at San Onofre have been off-line for extensive inspections, testing and analysis of their steam generators after unexpected wear and a leak were discovered in them in early 2012. SCE, the manufacturer of the steam generators and a team of outside experts have worked together to analyze the causes of the wear and possible remedial actions. The CPUC has begun an investigation proceeding that will consider the cost recovery for all of San Onofre costs, including the cost of the steam generator replacement project, substitute market power costs, operation and maintenance costs and the seismic study costs. SCE cannot assure that the scope of necessary repairs or the length of the outages will not exceed current estimates. There can also be no assurance that the cost of such repairs or the necessary substitute market power will not exceed current estimates and insurance coverage or that they will be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise. These amounts could be material and could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see "Management Overview—San Onofre Outage, Inspection and Repair Issues" in the MD&A.

Continued NRC scrutiny of San Onofre may result in additional corrective actions that will increase operations and maintenance costs or require additional capital expenditures.

San Onofre is subject to extensive oversight and scrutiny of the NRC. This scrutiny may result in SCE being required to take additional corrective actions and incur increased operations and maintenance expenses or new capital expenditures. If SCE is unable to take effective corrective actions required by the NRC, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. 

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.

Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $12.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of one or more nuclear incident claims that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $12.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. See "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE's nuclear plants.

The U.S. Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder the operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE's ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material effect on SCE.

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient and Edison International may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance on SCE's behalf for such occurrences.

Edison International has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance Edison International has obtained on SCE's behalf for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International.

Environmental Risks

SCE is subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and materially affect SCE.

SCE is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE devotes significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation projects, and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated 

16

environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could materially affect operations of power plants, which could in turn impact electricity markets and SCE's purchased power costs. SCE may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The continued operation of SCE facilities may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of energy that must be procured from renewable resources. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries" and "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Environmental Developments" for further discussion of environmental regulations under which SCE operates.

Financing Risks

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations would be materially affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to arrange financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal and interest, are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's failure to obtain additional capital from time to time would have a material effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES