Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risks 

Our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. For our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. We primarily use borrowings denominated in British pound sterling for these purposes. In managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts. These contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was approximately $706 million and $696 million at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rate changes decreased both revenues and segment profit in 2015 by $244 million and $20 million, respectively. The impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes on revenues and segment profit for 2014 and 2013 was not significant. 

33 

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Risks 

Our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. As part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. We continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. For our Finance group, we limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. 

Quantitative Risk Measures 

In the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. The financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding capital lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. To quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. 

At the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. This sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

* The value represents an asset or (liability). 

34 

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data