PART I  

ITEM 1. Business  

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in four business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, and Consumer Products. For convenience, the terms “Company” and “we” are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted.  

Information on the Company’s revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 150,000 people as of September 27, 2008.  

MEDIA NETWORKS  

The Media Networks segment is comprised of a domestic broadcast television network, television production and distribution operations, domestic television stations, cable networks, domestic broadcast radio networks and stations, and internet and mobile operations.  

Domestic Broadcast Television Network  

The Company operates the ABC Television Network, which as of September 27, 2008, had affiliation agreements with 233 local stations reaching 99% of all U.S. television households. The ABC Television Network broadcasts programs in the following “dayparts”: early morning, daytime, primetime, late night, news, children and sports.  

The ABC Television Network produces its own programs or acquires broadcast rights from other third-parties, as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company and pays varying amounts of compensation to affiliated stations for broadcasting the programs and commercial announcements included therein. The ABC Television Network derives substantially all of its revenues from the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts. The ABC Television Network also operates ABC.com and ABCNews.com which are discussed in more detail under Internet and Mobile operations.  

Television Production and Distribution   

The Company produces and distributes live action and animated television programming under the ABC Studios, Buena Vista Productions, and ABC Family Productions labels. These entities are collectively referred to as the Production Companies. Program development is carried out in collaboration with a number of independent writers, producers, and creative teams, with a focus on the development and production of half-hour comedies, one-hour dramas, and alternative series (reality) primarily for primetime broadcasts. Returning primetime programming produced either for ourselves or third parties in the 2008/2009 television season include the one-hour dramas Army Wives, Brothers & Sisters, Criminal Minds, Desperate Housewives, Dirty Sexy Money, Eli Stone, Ghost Whisperer, Grey’s Anatomy, Kyle XY, Lost, Private Practice, Reaper, and Ugly Betty; and the half-hour comedies According to Jim, Samantha Who? and Scrubs. We also produced Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and new primetime series that premiered in the fall of 2008 which included the one-hour dramas Life on Mars and Raising the Bar, and the half-hour comedy Gary Unmarried. In addition, Desperate Housewives and Lost entered the domestic syndication market during 2008. We also produce a variety of primetime specials for network television and live-action syndicated programming. Syndicated programming includes Live! with Regis and Kelly, a daily talk show, and At the Movies, a weekly motion picture review program; and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, a game show.  

The Company distributes its productions both domestically and internationally through distribution companies which are Disney-ABC Domestic Television and Disney-ABC ESPN Television International. The Company’s productions are also distributed in DVD format and online.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Domestic Television Stations  

The Company owns nine very high frequency (VHF) television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the United States, and one ultra-high frequency (UHF) television station. All of our television stations are affiliated with the ABC Television Network, transmit both analog and digital signals, and collectively reach 23% of the nation’s television households. Beginning in February 2009 federal law requires that all full-power television broadcast stations convert to an all-digital television broadcast format. Pursuant to this mandate we will no longer transmit analog signals.  

Markets and other station details for the stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)  Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2008  

Cable Networks  

Our cable networks are engaged in providing national programming networks, licensing television programming in domestic and international markets and investing in foreign television broadcasting, programming, production and distribution entities. Programming at our cable networks is both internally produced and acquired from third parties. The two primary brands for our cable networks are ESPN and Disney Channel. In addition to cable network operations, we have ESPN and Disney Channel branded radio operations which are managed together with the cable operations.  

Cable networks derive a majority of their revenues from fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (Cable Service Providers) and, for certain networks, the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. Generally, the Company’s cable networks operate under multi-year carriage agreements with Cable Service Providers that include contractually determined fees. The amounts that we can charge to Cable Service Providers for our cable network services are largely dependent on competition and the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. Certain programming developed by our cable networks is also distributed in DVD format and online.  

2  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s significant cable networks and our ownership percentage and estimated subscribers as of September 27, 2008 are set forth in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)  Estimated U.S. subscriber counts according to Nielsen Media Research as of September 2008  

  (2)  Subscriber counts are not rated by Nielsen and represent the number of subscribers receiving the service based on internal management reports. ESPN and A&E programming is distributed internationally through other networks discussed below.  

  (3)  For the Disney Channels Worldwide a channel is counted as separate from another channel if the channel has a separate visual feed, or the channel uses a different dedicated language targeted to a specific country. Previously, a channel was generally counted as separate if it had a separate physical broadcast facility.  

ESPN ESPN is a multimedia, multinational sports entertainment company that operates six television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN Classic, ESPNEWS, ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network) and ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports). ESPN also operates four high-definition television simulcast services, ESPN HD, ESPN2 HD, ESPNEWS HD and ESPNU HD. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN also owns, has equity interests in or has distribution agreements with 45 international sports networks reaching households in more than 195 countries and territories in 16 languages including a 50% equity interest in ESPN Star Sports, which distributes sports programming throughout most of Asia. In addition, ESPN holds a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns The Sports Network, The Sports Network 2, Le Réseau des Sports, ESPN Classic Canada, the NHL Network and Discovery Canada.  

ESPN operates ESPN.com, a sports web site; ESPN360.com, which delivers live games to broadband subscribers; ESPN Mobile Properties, which delivers content, including live game coverage, alerts and highlights, to mobile service providers; ESPN Regional Television, a syndicator of collegiate sports programming; the ESPN Radio Network; ESPN Radio stations; ESPN The Magazine; BASS; and ESPN Enterprises, which develops branded licensing opportunities.   

3  

Table of Contents 

 ESPN also holds a 20% equity interest in The Active Network, Inc., a domestic online community and marketing platform for individuals and event organizers who want to participate in sports and recreational activities. ESPN Zone sports-themed dining and entertainment facilities are operated by and included in the Parks and Resorts segment.  

The ESPN Radio Network format is carried on more than 750 stations, of which 355 (five of which are owned by the Company) are full-time, making it the largest sports radio network in the United States.  

Markets and other details for the stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)  Based on Spring 2008 Arbitron Radio Market Rankings  

Disney Channels Worldwide  

Disney Channel Disney Channel is a cable network service that targets children and families. Shows developed and produced internally for initial exhibition on Disney Channel include live-action comedy series, animated programming and educational preschool series, as well as projects for the Disney Channel Original Movie franchise, including this year’s Camp Rock and The Cheetah Girls One World. Live-action comedy series include Hannah Montana, Wizards of Waverly Place and The Suite Life on Deck, a new spin-off of The Suite Life of Zack and Cody. Animated programming includes Phineas and Ferb, Disney’s The Emperor’s New School and The Replacements. Series for preschoolers include the animated series Disney’s Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, My Friends Tigger & Pooh, Handy Manny and Disney’s Little Einsteins, as well as Imagination Movers, a new live-action series. Programming also includes products acquired from third parties and products from Disney’s theatrical film and television programming library.  

Many of the live-action and animated series produced for Disney Channel also air during the ABC Television Network’s Saturday morning children’s daypart, “ABC Kids.” These programs include Hannah Montana, The Suite Life of Zack & Cody, That’s So Raven, Disney’s The Emperor’s New School and The Replacements.   

Playhouse Disney Playhouse Disney provides learning-focused programming for preschoolers during a daily programming block on Disney Channel in the U.S. and on 19 separate Playhouse Disney channels around the world.  

Toon Disney Toon Disney is a network that currently reaches over 71 million U.S. households. Toon Disney features an array of predominantly animated programming from the Disney library and is also the home of Jetix, a block consisting of action adventure programming. In early 2009, we will re-brand Toon Disney television and online platforms in the U.S. to become Disney XD. The network will include a mix of live-action and animated programming for kids age 6-14.  

Jetix The Company has a 73.3% ownership interest in Jetix Europe, a publicly traded pan-European integrated children’s entertainment company, and a 100% ownership interest in Jetix Latin America.  

Hungama Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India which features a mix of anime, Hindi-language series and game shows.  

ABC Family ABC Family is a U.S. television programming service that targets adults 18-34 and features original movies, series and specials. The network’s current programming includes The Secret Life of the American Teenager, Kyle XY, Lincoln Heights, and Greek. Additionally, ABC Family airs content acquired from third parties, and products from our owned theatrical film library. ABC Family also features branded programming holiday events such as “13 Nights of Halloween” and “25 Days of Christmas”.  

4  

Table of Contents 

SOAPnet SOAPnet offers same day episodes of daytime dramas at night for convenient viewing, along with original programming including the popular new series, MVP as well as the returning series, General Hospital: Night Shift. SOAPnet also offers classic series including The O.C., One Tree Hill, and the original Beverly Hills 90210. In 2008, SOAPnet launched a redesign of its website to better serve fans and capture the relevance of today’s pop culture.  

A&E The A&E Television Networks include A&E, The History Channel, The Biography Channel and History International. A&E offers entertainment ranging from reality series to original movies, dramatic series, and justice shows. The History Channel offers original non-fiction series and event-driven specials. The Biography Channel offers original series about prominent people and their lives, including the “Biography” series. History International focuses on the culture and history of various countries throughout the world from the perspective of locals. Internationally, A&E programming is available in 125 countries through joint ventures and distribution agreements with affiliates.  

Lifetime Lifetime Entertainment Services includes Lifetime Television, Lifetime Movie Network and Lifetime Real Women. Lifetime Television is devoted to women’s lifestyle programming. Lifetime Movie Network is a 24-hour movie channel. Lifetime Real Women is a 24-hour cable network with programming from a woman’s point of view.  

The Company’s share of the financial results of A&E and Lifetime is reported under the heading “Equity in the income of investees” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Radio Disney The Radio Disney format is primarily intended to appeal to kids and tweens. It is carried on 52 stations, 41 of which are owned by the Company covering more than 60% of the U.S. market. Radio Disney is also available on RadioDisney.com, Sirius XM Radio, iTunes Radio Tuner, XM/DIRECTV and mobile phones via subscription music services available on cellular carriers, including AT&T and Sprint. Radio Disney programming can also be downloaded via the iTunes Music Store.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Radio Disney stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)  Based on Spring 2008 Arbitron Radio Market Rankings  

Internet and Mobile Operations  

The internet and mobile operations develop, publish and distribute content for online and wireless services intended to appeal to broad consumer interest in sports, news, and family entertainment. Internet web sites include ABC.com, ABCNews.com, Disney.com, ABCFamily.com, SOAPnet.com, ESPN.com, ESPN360.com and Disney’s Club Penguin. Disney Mobile Studios produces and publishes mobile content that is distributed through mobile carriers and content distributors worldwide and has entered into arrangements with mobile carriers to provide Disney branded phone services in Japan and Italy. The Company’s internet and mobile operations derive revenue from a combination of advertising and sponsorships, subscription services and e-commerce.  

6  

Table of Contents 

ABC.com is the official web site of the ABC Television Network and provides access to full length episodes of ABC shows online. ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online. ABCNews.com also offers broadband subscriptions to the 24-hour live internet news channel, ABC News Now, and to video-on-demand news reports from all ABC News broadcasts.  

Disney.com integrates many of the Company’s Disney-branded internet sites including sites for the Disney Channel, Disney Parks and Resorts, Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Consumer Products. Disney Online offers a number of premium broadband services, including Disney Connection, Disney’s Toontown Online and Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean Online.  

ABCFamily.com creates digital extensions to ABC Family programming that feature interactivity and social networking. The site also features user-generated content and online programming that is downloadable and customizable based on preferences of individual users.  

SOAPnet.com uses digital media to give soap fans additional information on SOAPnet daytime dramas. SOAPNETIC is a broadband fee service that provides exclusive, behind-the-scenes coverage of the world of daytime dramas.  

ESPN.com delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video to millions of fans each month. ESPN360.com is a broadband service that delivers more than 3,000 live events a year.  

Club Penguin, an online virtual world designed for kids ages 6-14, features animated penguin avatars that inhabit a snow-covered world, converse with other users, participate in group activities and create and furnish a virtual home with currency earned inside the game.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The ABC Television Network, Disney Channel, ESPN, ABC Family Channel and the ESPN and Radio Disney networks and our other broadcast and cable networks compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DVDs, video games and the internet. With respect to the sale of advertising time, the broadcasting operations, certain of our cable networks and our radio stations compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, Cable Service Providers and other advertising media such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, and the internet. For our television and radio stations, competition occurs primarily in individual market areas. A television or radio station in one market generally does not compete directly with stations in other markets.  

The growth in the number of networks distributed by Cable Service Providers has resulted in increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for both our broadcasting and cable networks. The Company’s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by Cable Service Providers. The Company’s contractual agreements with Cable Service Providers are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.  

The Company’s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. The Company currently has sports rights agreements with the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), Major League Baseball (MLB), World Cup, Indy Racing League and various college football and basketball conferences.  

The Company’s internet web sites and products compete with other web sites and products in their respective categories, which include kids, family, entertainment, sports and news, among others.  

Advertising revenues at the Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met, and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company’s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Federal Regulation  

Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following:  

   •    Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (or the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have generally received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals and approvals in the future.  

   •    Television and radio station ownership limits. The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:  

   •    FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any of the ten markets in which we own a television station.  

   •    Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience (for this purpose, FCC regulations attribute to UHF television stations only 50% of the television households in their market). Our stations reach approximately 23% of the national audience.  

   •    FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.  

   •    Dual networks. FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major television networks – ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC – from being under common ownership or control.  

   •    Regulation of programming. The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming. Broadcasters face a heightened risk of being found in violation of the indecency prohibition by the FCC because of recent FCC decisions, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC has indicated that it is increasing enforcement activities with respect to indecency, and has indicated it would consider license revocation for serious violations. Moreover, Congress recently increased penalties for broadcasting indecent programming to a maximum of $325,000 per violation.  

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.  

   •    Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to cable systems operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the cable operator must   

8  

Table of Contents 

 negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act and its successor, the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station’s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. Under must carry, if a satellite carrier elects to carry one local station in a market, the satellite carrier must carry the signals of all local television stations that also request carriage. Certain of the satellite carriage provisions are set to expire on December 31, 2009.  

   •    Digital television. FCC rules currently require full-power analog television stations, such as ours, to provide digital service on a second broadcast channel granted specifically for the phase-in of digital broadcasting. FCC rules also regulate digital broadcasting to ensure continued quality carriage of mandated free over-the-air program service. All of the Company’s stations have launched digital facilities, and we are evaluating various options with respect to use of digital channels. All broadcasters are required to operate exclusively in digital mode and permanently surrender one of their two channels by February 17, 2009.  

   •    Cable and Satellite Carriage of Programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. Litigation has been instituted against the Company, other program providers and distributors seeking among other things to achieve similar ends. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could, depending on its specific nature, have an impact on the Company’s operations.  

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and other legislation and of specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC’s regulatory authority.  

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.  

PARKS AND RESORTS  

The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line, Adventures by Disney, and ESPN Zone. The Company manages and has effective ownership interests of 51% and 43%, respectively, in Disneyland Resort Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company’s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties.  

The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues predominately from the sale of admissions to the theme parks, room nights at our hotels, merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales and rentals of vacation club properties and cruise vacation packages. Costs consist principally of labor, depreciation, costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold, marketing and sales expense, repairs and maintenance and entertainment.  

Walt Disney World Resort  

The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of owned land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Hollywood Studios and Disney’s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions in each of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Magic Kingdom – The Magic Kingdom, which opened in 1971, consists of seven themed lands: Main Street USA, Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, Mickey’s Toontown Fair and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed rides and attractions, live Disney character interaction, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza, Wishes.  

Epcot – Epcot, which opened in 1982, consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through major pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology improvements, communication, energy, transportation, using your imagination, life and health, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include the United States, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway and the United Kingdom. Both areas feature themed rides and attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also features Illuminations: Reflections of Earth, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Hollywood Studios – Disney’s Hollywood Studios, which opened in 1989 under the name of Disney-MGM Studios, changed its name to Disney’s Hollywood Studios on January 7, 2008. The park consists of a theme park, a radio studio and a film and television production facility. The park centers on Hollywood as it was during the 1930’s and 1940’s and provides various attractions, themed food service and merchandise facilities. The production facility consists of three sound stages, merchandise shops and a back lot and currently hosts both feature film and television productions. Disney’s Hollywood Studios also features Fantasmic!, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Animal Kingdom – Disney’s Animal Kingdom, which opened in 1998, consists of a 145-foot Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Dinoland U.S.A., Africa, Rafiki’s Planet Watch, Asia, Discovery Island and Camp Minnie-Mickey. Each themed area contains adventure attractions, entertainment shows, restaurants and merchandise shops. The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of trees and plants.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities – As of September 27, 2008, the Company owned and operated 17 resort hotels at the Walt Disney World Resort, with a total of approximately 22,000 rooms and 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, Disney’s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area offers approximately 800 campsites.  

The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts a 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex known as Downtown Disney, which consists of the Marketplace, West Side and Pleasure Island. Downtown Disney is home to the 50,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store featuring Disney-branded merchandise, Cirque du Soleil, the House of Blues, and the Company’s DisneyQuest facility. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company. In September 2008, the Company commenced a project to enhance Pleasure Island, which will feature new shopping and dining experiences to entertain guests of all ages.  

Disney’s Wide World of Sports, which opened in 1997, is a 220-acre sports complex providing professional caliber training and competition, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex’s venues accommodate more than 40 different sporting events, including baseball, tennis, basketball, softball, track and field, football and soccer. Its stadium is the spring training site for MLB’s Atlanta Braves and has a seating capacity exceeding 9,500. In May 2008, the Company announced plans to rebrand Disney’s Wide World of Sports complex as ESPN’s Wide World of Sports. In July 2008, the complex opened the Jostens Center, a 44,800 square foot field house that will accommodate many indoor sporting events each year. Additionally, the complex is the pre-season training site of the NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Amateur Athletic Union hosts more than 30 championship events per year at the facility.  

In the Downtown Disney Resort area, seven independently-operated hotels are situated on property leased from the Company. These hotels have a capacity of approximately 3,700 rooms. Additionally, the Walt Disney World Swan and the Walt Disney World Dolphin hotels which have approximately 2,300 total rooms, are independently operated on property leased from the Company near Epcot.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include four championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.  

Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns 461 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 49 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney’s California Adventure), three hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment district designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The entire Disneyland Resort is marketed as a destination resort through international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants at both of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

Disneyland – Disneyland, which opened in 1955, consists of Main Street USA and seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, New Orleans Square, Tomorrowland and Toontown. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

Disney’s California Adventure – Disney’s California Adventure, which opened in 2001, is adjacent to Disneyland and includes four principal areas: Golden State, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, Paradise Pier and “a bug’s land”. These areas include rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

In October 2007, the Company announced a multi-year expansion that will bring new entertainment and family-oriented attractions to Disney’s California Adventure, including an entirely new 12-acre Cars Land inspired by the animated film Cars.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities – Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels: the 969-room Disneyland Hotel, the 481-room Disney’s Paradise Pier Hotel and Disney’s Grand Californian Hotel & Spa, a deluxe 745-room hotel located adjacent to Disney’s California Adventure. The Company has plans to expand Disney’s Grand Californian Hotel & Spa by late 2009, adding more than 200 new hotel rooms and introducing 50 Disney Vacation Club units.  

The Resort also includes Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre outdoor complex of entertainment, dining and shopping venues, located adjacent to both Disneyland Park and Disney’s California Adventure. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties, who pay rent and license fees to the Company.  

Disneyland Resort Paris  

The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Resort Paris, which is a 4,800-acre development located in Marne-la-Vallée, approximately 20 miles east of Paris France, being developed pursuant to a 1987 master agreement with French governmental authorities. Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity in which the Company holds a 40% interest, and its subsidiaries operate Disneyland Resort Paris, which includes Disneyland Park; Walt Disney Studios Park; seven themed hotels with approximately 5,800 rooms; two convention centers; Disney Village, a shopping, dining and entertainment complex; and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 4,800 acres comprising the site, approximately 2,400 acres have been developed to date which includes the Val d’Europe development discussed below. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Disneyland Resort Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. is required to pay royalties and management fees to certain indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Walt Disney Company based on the operating performance of the park.  

Disneyland Park – Disneyland Park, which opened in 1992, consists of Main Street and four principal themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland and Frontierland. These areas include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Walt Disney Studios Park – Walt Disney Studios Park opened in March 2002 adjacent to Disneyland Park. The park takes guests into the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four principal themed areas: Front Lot, Toon Studios, Production Courtyard and Backlot. These areas each include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

Val d’Europe is a planned community that is being developed near Disneyland Resort Paris. The completed phases of the development include: a town center, which consists of a shopping center; a 150-room hotel; office, commercial, and residential space; and a regional train station. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries.  

In addition, several on-site hotels opened between 2003 and 2006 that are owned and operated by third-party developers and provide approximately 2,300 rooms.  

In fiscal 2005, Euro Disney S.C.A. completed a financial restructuring, which provided for an increase in capital and refinancing of its borrowings. Pursuant to the financial restructuring, the Company has agreed to conditionally and unconditionally defer certain management fees and royalties and convert them into long-term subordinated debt and provide a new ten year €150 million line of credit for liquidity needs, which reduces to €100 million after five years.  

Hong Kong Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns a 43% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region owns a 57% majority interest. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.  

Located on 311 acres on Lantau Island, the resort is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and two themed hotels.  

Hong Kong Disneyland – Hong Kong Disneyland opened in September 2005 and consists of the following lands: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

Hotels – Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels: the 400-room Hong Kong Disneyland Hotel and the 600-room Disney’s Hollywood Hotel.  

The master project agreement signed by the Company and the Hong Kong government in 1999 permits further phased buildout of the development under certain circumstances.  

Based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, the Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees. The Company has, however, agreed to waive management fees for the 2008 and 2009 fiscal years and to defer royalties for the same period.  

Tokyo Disney Resort  

Tokyo Disney Resort is located on approximately 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); three Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; and a retail, dining and entertainment complex.  

Tokyo Disneyland – Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983, was the first Disney theme park to open outside the United States. Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.  

Tokyo DisneySea – Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 2001. The park is divided into seven unique “ports of call,” including Mediterranean Harbor, American Waterfront, Port Discovery, Lost River Delta, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Arabian Coast.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities – The resort includes the 504-room Disney Ambassador Hotel, the 502-room Tokyo Disney Sea Hotel MiraCosta and the 705-room Tokyo Disneyland Hotel, which opened in July 2008. The resort also includes the Disney Resort Line monorail, which links theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex, and with Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location.  

The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest. OLC markets the Tokyo Disney Resort primarily through a variety of local, domestic and international advertising and promotional activities. In addition, third parties sponsor many of the theme park attractions under long-term arrangements.  

Disney Vacation Club  

The Disney Vacation Club (DVC) offers ownership interests in eight resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Vero Beach, Florida; and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as rental property until the units are sold. Disney Vacation Club inventory consists of a mix of units ranging from one bedroom studios to three bedroom villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two bedroom equivalents. As of September 27, 2008, DVC has approximately 2,300 Units. There are approximately 700 additional Units under construction at the Walt Disney World Resort. These include the second phase of Disney’s Animal Kingdom Villas as well as the recently announced Bay Lake Towers at Disney’s Contemporary Resort and the Treehouse Villas at Disney’s Saratoga Springs Resort and Spa. These accommodations are scheduled for development in phases with an anticipated completion date of the final phase planned for fall 2009. In 2007, the Company announced plans to open the first DVC units in Anaheim, California, and on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. In Anaheim, 50 Units at Disney’s Grand Californian Hotel & Spa are scheduled for completion in late 2009. In Oahu, the Company has purchased 21 acres of oceanfront property which will be home to a new DVC resort. This resort, scheduled to open in phases beginning in 2011, will include 350 traditional hotel rooms and 480 Units.  

Disney Cruise Line  

Disney Cruise Line, which is operated out of Port Canaveral, Florida, is a vacation cruise line that includes two 85,000-ton ships, the Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder. Both ships cater to children, families and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. Each ship features 877 staterooms, 73% of which are outside and provide guests with ocean views. Cruise vacations often include a visit to Disney’s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island. The Company packages three, four and seven-day cruise vacations with visits to the Walt Disney World Resort and also offers cruise-only options.  

In February 2007, the Company announced that it is expanding its cruise business by adding two new ships, one in 2011 and one in 2012. The new ships will each be 124,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms.  

Adventures by Disney  

Adventures by Disney, which began operations in 2005, offers a series of all inclusive guided vacation tour packages at predominantly non-Disney sites around the world. The Company offered seventeen specialized excursions during 2008. In August 2008, the Company announced that Adventures by Disney is adding new destinations, giving guests a total of twenty three destinations to choose from in 2009.  

ESPN Zone  

The ESPN Zone concept combines three interactive areas under one roof for a complete sports and entertainment experience: the Studio Grill, offering dining in an ESPN studio environment; the Screening Room, offering fans an exciting sports viewing environment; and the Sports Arena, challenging guests with a variety of interactive and competitive attractions. The Company currently operates eight ESPN Zone restaurants located in Anaheim, California; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Chicago, Illinois; Denver, Colorado; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; and Washington, D.C.  

Walt Disney Imagineering  

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company’s operations.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s theme parks and resorts compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices and weather patterns.  

All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Historically, the theme parks and resort business experiences fluctuations in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.  

STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT  

The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video programming, musical recordings and live stage plays.  

The Company distributes produced and acquired films (including its film and television library) in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Each of these market windows is discussed in more detail below.  

Theatrical Market  

Walt Disney Pictures, a subsidiary of the Company, produces and acquires live-action motion pictures that are distributed primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures and Touchstone Pictures banners focusing on the production of Disney-branded films. Miramax Film Corp. (Miramax), another subsidiary of the Company, acquires and produces motion pictures under the Miramax banner. The Company distributed motion pictures under the Dimension banner through September 30, 2005. All releases under the Dimension banner after September 30, 2005 are owned and distributed by The Weinstein Company, a third-party company operated by the former co-chairmen of Miramax. The Company retains a license to continue to use the Dimension banner on titles that were released prior to September 30, 2005. The Company also produces and distributes animated motion pictures under the banners, Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar.  

During fiscal 2009, we expect to distribute domestically approximately 16 feature films under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar and Touchstone Pictures banners and approximately nine films under the Miramax banner. These releases include several live-action family films and full-length animated films, with the remainder targeted to teenagers and/or adults. As of September 27, 2008, the Company had released domestically 928 full-length live-action features, 80 full-length animated features, approximately 546 cartoon shorts and 53 live action shorts under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension banners.  

We distribute and market our filmed products principally through our own distribution and marketing companies in the U.S. In the international markets, we distribute our filmed products both directly and through independent distribution companies or through joint ventures. Films released theatrically in the U.S. can be released simultaneously in international territories or generally up to six months later.  

The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public’s intent to view the film and to help generate significant consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses in the theatrical markets on a film, including the quarters before the theatrical release of the film.  

Home Entertainment Market  

In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of our motion picture banners. In the international market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of our motion picture banners both directly and through independent foreign distribution companies. In addition, we acquire and produce original programming for direct-to-video release.  

14  

Table of Contents 

The domestic and international home entertainment window typically starts four to six months after each theatrical release with the issuance of a variety of physical and electronic versions of each title (including DVD, Blu-ray and electronic formats). Most titles are sold simultaneously to both “rentailers,” such as Blockbuster, and retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy.  

As of September 27, 2008, under the banners Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension, 1,407 produced and acquired titles, including 1,139 live-action titles and 268 cartoon shorts and animated features, are available to the domestic home entertainment marketplace and 3,309 produced and acquired titles, including 2,456 live-action titles and 853 cartoon shorts and animated features, are available to the international home entertainment market.  

Television Market  

Pay-Per-View (PPV)/Video-on-Demand (VOD): Generally about one to two months after the home entertainment window begins, the studio’s television distributors, Disney-ABC Domestic Television and Disney-ABC-ESPN Television, license titles to cable, satellite, internet game consoles, and mobile platforms for showing on a pay-per-view/video-on-demand basis. PPV/VOD services deliver one-time rentals electronically to consumers at a price comparable to that of physical media rentals.  

Pay Television (Pay 1): There are generally two pay television windows. The first window is generally sixteen months in duration and follows the PPV/VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive domestic pay television rights to certain films released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension banners to the Starz (formerly Encore) pay television service through fiscal 2013.  

Free Television (Free 1): The Pay 1 window is followed by a free television window with telecasts accessible to consumers without charge. This free window may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window on an ad-hoc basis to major networks, including the ABC Television Network, and basic cable services, including ABC Family, Disney Channel, Toon Disney, and SOAPnet.  

Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2): In the U.S., Free 1 is generally followed by a fourteen-month Pay 2 window, included under our license arrangement with Starz, and finally by a Free 2 window. The Free 2 window is a syndication window where films are licensed both to basic cable networks and to third-party television station groups. Major packages of the Company’s feature films have been licensed for broadcast under multi-year agreements.  

International Television: The Company also licenses its theatrical and television properties outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is broadly consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles premiere on television in PPV/VOD then air in pay TV before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by country.  

Disney Music Group  

The Disney Music Group includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records (including the Mammoth Records and Buena Vista Records labels), Lyric Street Records, Buena Vista Concerts and Disney Music Publishing.  

Walt Disney Records produces and distributes compact discs and music DVDs in the United States. Music categories include infant, children’s read-along, teens, all-family and soundtracks from film and television series distributed by Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Channel. It also licenses the creation of similar products throughout the rest of the world. Hollywood Records develops, produces and markets recordings from talent across a spectrum of popular music. Nashville-based Lyric Street Records develops, produces and markets recordings in the country music genre.  

Each of the labels commissions new music for the Company’s motion picture and television programs, records the songs and licenses the song copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution. Buena Vista Concerts produces live-entertainment events with artists signed to the Disney Music Group record labels.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Disney Music Publishing controls the copyrights of thousands of musical compositions derived from the Company’s motion picture, television, record and theme park properties, as well as musical compositions written by songwriters under exclusive contract. It is responsible for the management, protection, and licensing of the Disney song catalog on a worldwide basis, including licensing for printed music, records, audio-visual works and new media.  

Disney Theatrical Group  

The Disney Theatrical Group includes both Disney Theatrical Productions and Disney Live Family Entertainment.  

Disney Theatrical Productions develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events. The Company has produced and licensed Broadway musicals around the world, including Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), TARZAN®, the professional touring stage version of High School Musical, and The Little Mermaid which opened on Broadway in January 2008. In addition, the Company licenses musicals for local school and community theatre productions.  

Disney Live Family Entertainment delivers worldwide touring productions under the Disney On Ice and Disney Live! brands under a license to Feld Entertainment. In May 2008, Disney Live! launched Three Classic Fairytales in Shanghai, China, and in September 2008, Disney On Ice launched its latest ice show, Worlds of Fantasy in Lakeland, Florida.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The success of Studio Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.  

The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television programming services and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.  

CONSUMER PRODUCTS  

The Consumer Products segment engages with licensees, manufacturers, publishers and retailers throughout the world to design, develop, publish, promote and sell a wide variety of products based on existing and new Disney characters and other Company intellectual property. In addition to leveraging the Company’s film and television properties, Consumer Products also develops new intellectual property with the potential of being used in the Company’s other businesses. The Company also engages in retail and online distribution of products based on the Company’s characters and films through The Disney Store and DisneyShopping.com, respectively.  

Merchandise Licensing  

The Company’s worldwide merchandise licensing operations include a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, accessories, footwear, home furnishings, home décor, health, beauty, food, stationery and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include Mickey Mouse, Winnie the Pooh, Disney Princess, Cars, Hannah Montana, and High School Musical. The Company also designs individual products and creates exclusive themed and seasonal promotional campaigns for retailers based on characters, movies and TV shows.  

Books and Magazines  

Disney Publishing Worldwide (DPW) publishes children’s books and magazines in multiple countries and languages. DPW’s businesses include Disney Global Book Group, Global Children’s Magazines, U.S. Consumer Magazines, and Disney English. In fiscal 2008, the Disney Global Books Group published titles around the world in   

16  

Table of Contents 

 support of such franchises as High School Musical, Cars, Hannah Montana, Disney Princess, Disney Fairies, and Playhouse Disney. The Global Children’s Magazines business launched new titles such as High School Musical, Hannah Montana, Playhouse Disney, and the World of Cars, adding to its portfolio of magazines dedicated to Standard Characters. The U.S. Consumer Magazine business includes FamilyFun, Wondertime, and Disney en Familia, a new publication launched in 2008, designed for U.S. Hispanic households. DPW also licenses books, magazines and English language learning programs. In October 2008, DPW opened its first Disney English Center in Shanghai.  

Disney Interactive Studios  

Disney Interactive Studios (DIS) creates, develops, markets and distributes multi-platform video games worldwide. DIS focuses on multi-platform games derived from the Company’s creative content, such as Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End, High School Musical and The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian. DIS also released Turok and Pure. DIS is increasing its investment in internally developed and published games through the acquisition of studios and increased product development spending. DIS also licenses properties for games, such as Kingdom Hearts and Wall-E to third-party publishers. The Company has a licensing agreement with THQ, Inc. that includes the two Pixar titles that follow Wall-E.  

The Disney Store  

The Company markets Disney-themed products directly through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name. These facilities are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes. The stores carry a wide variety of Disney merchandise and promote other businesses of the Company. The Company owns and operates 229 stores in North America and 105 stores in Europe. In Japan, the stores are operated by a subsidiary of Oriental Land Co., Ltd., under a licensing arrangement. In fiscal 2005, The Disney Stores North America (315 stores) were sold to a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Children’s Place (TCP), which operated them under a licensing and operating arrangement. In fiscal 2008, the Company re-acquired certain assets of the Disney Stores North America and terminated TCP’s long-term licensing arrangement. The Company acquired the inventory, leasehold improvements, and certain fixed assets of, and assumed the leases on, 229 stores that it currently operates. The Company conducted the wind-down and closure of an additional 88 stores but did not assume the leases on these stores. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the acquisition of The Disney Stores North America.  

DisneyShopping.com  

DisneyShopping.com offers Disney-themed merchandise through an internet site, which includes internally developed Disney merchandise as well as merchandise from Disney licensees.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company competes in its merchandise licensing, publishing, video game and retail activities with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. Based on independent surveys, we believe the Company is the largest worldwide licensor of character-based merchandise based on retail sales. Operating results for the licensing and retail distribution business are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and performance of animated theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION  

The Company’s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines.  

The Company’s ability to exploit and protect intellectual property rights is affected by the strength and effectiveness of intellectual property laws in the United States and abroad. Inadequate laws or enforcement mechanisms to protect intellectual property in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations worldwide, despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights. In addition, a variety of factors, including technological advances, the falling prices of devices incorporating such new technologies, and increased   

17  

Table of Contents 

 broadband internet speed and penetration have made infringement easier and faster and enforcement more challenging. Therefore, the Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property against unauthorized use in the United States and foreign markets.  

The Company is also subject to the risk of challenges by third parties claiming infringement of their proprietary rights. Regardless of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report.  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors