ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We have assets and liabilities outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, certain revenues from products sold in countries outside the United States and costs associated with non-U.S. operations are denominated in foreign currencies. For more information on our foreign currency translation, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Europe. Our investments in subsidiaries outside the United States with functional currencies other than the United States dollar are considered long-term. We currently engage in forward currency exchange contracts and other similar hedging activities to reduce our economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. At December 31, 2013, exchange contracts with a notional amount of approximately $121.9 million were outstanding. Because we market, sell and license our products throughout the world, we could be adversely affected by weak economic conditions in international markets that could reduce demand for our products.

Our net investment in subsidiaries outside the United States, translated into United States dollars using the period-end exchange rates, was approximately $1,079.6 million and $718.6 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign exchange rates would be approximately $108.0 million and $71.9 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in the potential loss in fair value is primarily due to the increase in the net investment of subsidiaries outside the United States. We have no plans to liquidate any of our subsidiaries outside the United States, and therefore, foreign exchange rate gains or losses on our international investments are reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment and do not increase or reduce our reported net earnings.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to changes in market interest rates relates primarily to interest paid on our floating rate long-term debt. Our floating rate long-term debt consists of the $150 million borrowed under our term loan facility that bears interest at the one-month LIBOR rate plus a scheduled spread. Fluctuations in market interest rates will cause interest expense increases or decreases on such long-term debt.

As our risk management objectives include mitigating the risk of changes in cash flows attributable to changes in the designated one-month LIBOR rate for the term loan facility, we entered into two interest rate swaps for the aggregate notional amount of $150 million and fixed interest rates of 1.016 percent and 0.97 percent effective at the time the term loan was drawn to hedge this exposure. Changes in the cash flows of the interest rate swaps are expected to exactly offset the changes in cash flows attributable to fluctuations in the one-month LIBOR based interest payments. The net effect of these swap agreements is to convert the floating interest rate basis to fixed rates of 1.016 percent and 0.97 percent.

See Item 7 and Note 3, Note 9, and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, for additional information on the Company's interest rate risk.

35

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA