Item 1. Business

Our Business

Omnicom is a strategic holding company and a leading global provider of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditure.

Our branded networks and agencies operate in all major global markets and provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and healthcare. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to better capture the expanded scope of our services, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we realigned our service disciplines. As a result, our CRM discipline was grouped into two separate categories: CRM Consumer Experience, which includes Omnicom Precision Marketing Group’s digital / direct marketing agencies, as well as our branding agencies, shopper marketing agencies and our experiential marketing agencies; and, CRM Execution & Support, which includes field marketing, sales support, merchandising and point of sale, as well as other specialized marketing and custom communications services. Also, we realigned and renamed our former specialty communications discipline so that it now exclusively includes agencies offering healthcare marketing and communications services.

Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. Services across our disciplines include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1

Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our networks and agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. Our fundamental business principle is that our clients’ specific marketing requirements are the central focus of how we structure our service offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks utilizing our key client matrix organization structure. This collaboration allows us to cut across our internal organizational structures to execute our clients’ marketing requirements in a consistent and comprehensive manner. We believe that this organizational philosophy, our ability to execute on it and our key client matrix organization structure differentiates us from our competition. In addition, during 2017, we continued the process of forming practice areas within our global network structure to bring together agencies operating in common disciplines to leverage existing resources and to create, in close coordination with our key client matrix organization, additional custom client solutions.

As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have made it a practice to consolidate their business within one service provider in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around this trend. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions has provided a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration of the services required by the world’s largest brands. Our over-arching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies.

 The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in 2017 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, in the three year period ended December 31, 2017 was material to our results of operations or financial position. For information about our acquisitions, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Regions

Our United States operations represent approximately 54% of our revenue. As discussed more fully in the Critical Accounting Policies section of the MD&A, our branded networks and agencies conduct business on a global basis and operate in the following geographic regions: The Americas, which includes North America and Latin America; EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and, Asia Pacific, which includes Australia, China, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Singapore and other Asian countries. The networks have regional reporting units that are responsible for the agencies in their region. Agencies within the regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries and in many cases the same clients and have similar economic characteristics. Accordingly, financial information by geographic region is provided in the MD&A and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Our Clients

Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand, product groups, or both within the same client. For example, in 2017 our largest client represented 3.0% of revenue and was served by more than 250 of our agencies. Our 100 largest clients, which represent many of the world's major marketers, comprised approximately 51% of revenue and were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies.

Our Employees

At December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 77,300 people worldwide. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience, whether through traditional channels or emerging digital platforms. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See the MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

2

Executive Officers of the Registrant

At January 31, 2018, our executive officers were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years, except: Mr. Angelastro was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2014 and previously served as Senior Vice President Finance and Controller from 2002 until September 2014; Mr. Sherman was named Executive Vice President in April 2014 and previously served as Chief Executive Officer of JWT North America from June 2013 to April 2014 and previously held various positions with BBDO Worldwide from 1997 until 2013; Mr. Castellaneta was named Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2015 and previously served as Assistant Controller from 2000 until January 2015; and, Mr. Swiecicki was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller in January 2015 and previously served as Director of Business Operations from 2013 until January 2015 and previously held various positions with BBDO Worldwide from 1983 until 2013. Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC by April 12, 2018.

Item 1A. Risk Factors