Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

 The following are risks related to our business and the insurance industry that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The risk factors are:   

Our results may fluctuate due to many factors, including cyclical or permanent changes in the insurance and reinsurance industries.  

 Our results historically have been subject to significant fluctuations arising from uncertainties and changes in the insurance industry. Changes in premium rates affect not only the potential profitability of our underwriting businesses but also generally affect the commissions and fees payable to our brokerage businesses. In addition, insurance industry developments that can significantly affect our financial performance include factors such as:    

•rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products 

•volatile and unpredictable developments, including weather-related and other natural and man-made catastrophes, including acts of terrorism 

•changes in levels of capacity and demand, including reinsurance capacity 

•changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liabilities develop 

•changes in business practices and business compensation models.   

8 

Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the mode of compensation in the insurance industry.   

 Since the Attorney General of New York brought charges against one of our competitors in October 2004, there has been a great deal of uncertainty concerning then-longstanding methods of compensating insurance brokers. Soon after the Attorney General brought those charges, Aon and certain other large insurance brokers announced that they would terminate contingent commission arrangements with underwriters. Most insurance brokers, however, currently continue to enter into such arrangements, and regulators have not taken action to end such arrangements throughout the industry.   

We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses.   

 We believe that competition in our lines of business is based on service, product features, price, commission structure, financial strength, claims-paying ability ratings and name recognition. In particular, we compete with a large number of national, regional and local insurance companies and other financial services providers and brokers.  

 We encounter strong competition for both clients and professional talent in our insurance brokerage and risk management services operations from other insurance brokerage firms which also operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms throughout the world, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants that provide risk-related services and products. Our consulting operations compete with independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world.  

 In addition, the increase in competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include:    

•an increase in capital-raising by insurance underwriting companies, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an influx of capital into the industry 

•the selling of insurance by insurance companies directly to insureds 

•changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory investigations 

•the establishment of programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe prone areas or other alternative markets types of coverage 

•additional regulations promulgated by the FSA in the U.K., or other regulatory bodies in jurisdictions in which we operate.   

 New competition as a result of these developments could cause the supply of, and demand for, our products and services to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our restructuring plans.   

 In third quarter 2007, we announced a global restructuring plan intended to create a more streamlined organization and to reduce future expense growth to better serve clients ("the 2007 Plan"). As a result, we have adopted restructuring initiatives that are expected to result in the elimination of an estimated 2,700 employee positions, the closing or consolidation of several offices, asset impairments and other expenses necessary to implement these initiatives. We currently expect that the 2007 Plan will result in cumulative pretax charges of $360 million. We anticipate that our annualized savings from the 2007 Plan will be approximately $240 million by 2010. We cannot assure that we will achieve the targeted savings. In 2005, we began a restructuring initiative to reduce our fixed cost base and increase  

9 

efficiency ("the 2005 Plan"). The 2005 Plan is substantially complete, and resulted in cumulative pretax charges totaling $366 million. Restructuring costs included the elimination of approximately 3,600 employee positions, the closing of various offices, asset impairments and other expenses necessary to implement these initiatives. We anticipate that our annualized savings from the 2005 Plan will be approximately $270 million by 2008. Estimated savings from the 2007 and 2005 Plans do not include any benefits related to businesses placed in discontinued operations. We cannot assure that we will achieve the targeted savings.   

Changes in interest rates and investment prices could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results.   

 We carry an investment portfolio of fixed-maturity and other long-term investments. As of December 31, 2007, our continuing operations had fixed-maturity investments (approximately 96% was investment grade) that had a carrying value of $150 million and our other long-term investments had a carrying value of $317 million. Funds held on behalf of clients, which were $3.1 billion at December 31, 2007, are held in short-term investments. Changes in interest rates and investment prices could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results.  

 For example, changes in domestic and international interest rates directly affect our income from, and the market value of, fixed-maturity investments. Similarly, general economic conditions, stock market conditions and other factors beyond our control affect the value of our equity investments. We monitor our portfolio for other-than-temporary impairments in carrying value. For securities judged to have an other-than-temporary impairment, we recognize a realized loss through the statement of income to write down the value of those securities.  

 We are also subject to potential declines in credit quality, either related to issues specific to certain industries or to a weakening in the economy in general. The concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic conditions or otherwise could cause realized losses on securities, including realized losses relating to derivative strategies. The financial and liquidity needs of our business could also cause us to sell assets from our investment portfolio at unfavorable prices.   

Our net pension liabilities may grow, which could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity and require us to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans.   

 To the extent that the present value of the benefits incurred to date for pension obligations in the major countries in which we operate continues to exceed the value of the assets supporting these obligations, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In certain previous years, there have been declines in interest rates. As a result of lower interest rates, the present value of plan liabilities increased faster than the value of plan assets, resulting in significantly higher unfunded positions in several of our major pension plans.  

 Cash contributions of approximately $195 million will be required in 2008 for our major pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more. Total cash contributions to these pension plans in 2007 were $211 million, which was an increase of $7 million from 2006. In 2006, we also contributed $166 million of non-cash financial instruments to certain of our U.K. plans. In total, our 2007 contributions to these pension plans were $159 million less than in 2006. Future estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, mortality, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets.  

 Periodic revision of pension assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits, and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur in the future  

10 

due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future decreases in stockholders' equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity or that we will not be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been estimated.   

We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial results.   

 We are subject to numerous claims, tax assessments, lawsuits and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. The damages claimed in these matters are or may be substantial, including, in many instances, claims for punitive, treble or extraordinary damages. It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies and legal proceedings were not favorable to us, it could materially adversely affect our future financial results. In addition, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Aon has purchased errors and omissions ("E&O") insurance and other insurance to provide protection against losses that arise in such matters. Accruals for these items, net of insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable. These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as developments warrant.  

 In 2004, Aon, other insurance brokers, insurers and numerous other industry participants received subpoenas and other requests for information from the office of the Attorney General of the State of New York and from other states relating to certain practices in the insurance industry.  

 On March 4, 2005, Aon entered into an agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") with the Attorney General of the State of New York, the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York, the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut, the Illinois Attorney General and the Director of the Division of Insurance, Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (collectively, the "State Agencies") to resolve all the issues related to investigations conducted by the State Agencies. The 2005 Settlement Agreement, under which Aon distributed funds to certain clients and implemented business reforms, has been described in detail in Aon's previous financial filings. Aon has also entered into a comprehensive settlement agreement, under the auspices of the NAIC, with numerous other states, that also incorporates these same business reforms.  

 Purported clients have also filed civil litigation against Aon and other companies under a variety of laws and legal theories relating to broker compensation practices and other issues under investigation by New York and other states. As previously reported, a putative class action styled Daniel v. Aon (Affinity) has been pending in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois since August 1999. In March 2005, the Court gave preliminary approval to a nationwide class action settlement under which Aon agreed to pay a total of $38 million to its policyholders. The Court granted final approval to the settlement in March 2006. Parties that objected to the settlement have appealed.  

 Beginning in June 2004, a number of other putative class actions were filed against Aon and other companies by purported classes of clients under a variety of legal theories, including state tort, contract, fiduciary duty, antitrust and statutory theories and federal antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ("RICO") theories. The federal actions were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and a state court collective action was filed in California. In the New Jersey actions, the Court dismissed plaintiffs' federal antitrust and RICO claims in separate orders in August and October 2007, respectively. Plaintiffs have appealed these dismissals. Aon believes it has meritorious defenses in all of these cases and intends to vigorously defend itself against these claims. The outcome of these lawsuits, and any losses or other payments that may occur as a result, cannot be predicted at this time.  

11 

 Beginning in late October 2004, several putative securities class actions were filed against Aon in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Also beginning in late October 2004, several putative ERISA class actions were filed against Aon in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Aon believes it has meritorious defenses in all of these cases and intends to vigorously defend itself against these claims. The outcome of these lawsuits, and any losses or other payments that may occur as a result, cannot be predicted at this time. With respect to the various securities and ERISA class actions, we are unable to estimate a range of possible losses, as these actions have not yet progressed to the stages where damages, if any, can be estimated.  

 Following inquiries from regulators, the Company commenced an internal review of its compliance with certain U.S. and non-U.S. anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). An outside law firm with significant experience in the area is overseeing this review. Certain governmental agencies, including the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the City of London police, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the U.S. Department of Justice are also investigating these matters. Aon is fully cooperating with these investigations, and has agreed with the U.S. agencies to toll any applicable statute of limitations pending completion of the investigations. Based on current information, the Company is unable to predict at this time when these matters will be concluded, or what regulatory or other outcomes may result.  

 A financial institution in the U.K. called Standard Life Assurance Ltd. brought an action in London Commercial Court against Aon seeking more than £50 million ($99 million at December 31, 2007 exchange rates) for alleged errors or omissions in the placement of a professional indemnity policy with certain underwriters. In a decision issued on February 13, 2008, the court construed the relevant policy language to excuse underwriters from paying Standard Life and concluded that Aon was negligent in not seeking changes to the language. The court granted Aon leave to file an interlocutory appeal on these issues and stated in granting leave that the issue in the case was a "difficult question of construction on which views may legitimately differ." Aon believes that the decision is incorrect, is appealing this decision and, if the appeal is unsuccessful, will vigorously contest other issues that have not yet been litigated in the Commercial Court. Aon further believes that, as a result of an indemnity given to Aon by a third party, Aon may be entitled to indemnification in whole or part should it ultimately suffer a loss in this matter. Because of the uncertainty inherent in the appeals process, the ability to contest issues in subsequent proceedings, the potential indemnity, and potential recoveries from Aon's errors and omissions insurance, Aon is unable to predict at this time the probable loss, if any, from this matter.  

 Although the ultimate outcome of all matters referred to above cannot be ascertained, and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on Aon or its subsidiaries, on the basis of present information, amounts already provided, availability of insurance coverages and legal advice received, it is the opinion of management that the disposition or ultimate determination of such claims will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of Aon. However, it is possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters.   

We are subject to increasing costs arising from E&O claims against us.   

 In our insurance brokerage and consulting businesses, we often assist our clients with matters which include the placement of insurance coverage or employee benefit plans and the handling of related claims. E&O claims against us may allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. E&O claims could include, for example, the failure of our employees or sub-agents, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage correctly or notify carriers of claims on behalf of clients or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions, and the precautions  

12 

we take may not be effective in all cases. In addition, E&O claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.   

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel.   

 Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including underwriters, brokers and other professional personnel. Competition for such experienced professional personnel is intense. If we cannot hire and retain talented personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.   

Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.   

 Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign governmental regulation and supervision, which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. With respect to our insurance brokerage businesses, this supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and third-party administrators and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokering and third-party administration in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Also, we can be affected indirectly by the governmental regulation and supervision of other insurance companies. For instance, if we are providing managing general underwriting services for an insurer, we may have to contend with regulations affecting our client. Further, regulation affecting the insurance companies with whom our brokers place business can affect how we conduct those operations.  

 Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. In the U.S., this system of regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, affects the way we can conduct our insurance underwriting business. Laws in each of the states in which we operate extensively regulate our sales practices, operations, marketing and advertising by requiring, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of new products, premium rates, benefit changes and certain material transactions, including dividend payments to stockholders, purchases or sales of assets and inter-company agreements. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters.  

 Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including employee benefit plan regulation, Medicare, age, race, disability and sex discrimination, investment company regulation, financial services regulation, securities laws and federal taxation, do affect the insurance industry generally and our insurance underwriting subsidiaries in particular. For instance, several laws and regulations adopted by the federal government, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and "Do Not Call" regulations, have created additional administrative and compliance requirements for us.  

 With respect to our international operations, we are subject to various regulations relating to, among other things, licensing, currency, policy language and terms, reserves and the amount of local investment. These various regulations also add to our cost of doing business through increased compliance expenses, the financial impact of use of capital restrictions and increased training and  

13 

employee expenses. Furthermore, the loss of a license in a particular jurisdiction could restrict or eliminate our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction.  

 In all jurisdictions the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past.   

Our significant global operations expose us to various international risks that could adversely affect our business.   

 A significant portion of our operations are conducted outside the U.S. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including:    

•the general economic and political conditions existing in those countries 

•devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates 

•imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries 

•imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries 

•difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations 

•hyperinflation in certain foreign countries 

•imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments 

•longer payment cycles 

•greater difficulties in accounts receivables collection 

•the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.   

 Some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. We must also translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we use various derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse transaction and translation effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate such risks and significant changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results.   

Our financial results could be adversely affected if assumptions used in establishing our underwriting reserves differ from actual experience.   

 We maintain reserves as an estimate of our liability under insurance policies issued by our insurance underwriting operations that are in runoff. The reserves that we maintain that could cause variability in our financial results are policy and contract claim reserves.  

 Policy and contract claim reserves reflect our estimated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees and general expenses for administering the claims adjustment process, and for reported and unreported losses incurred as of the end of each accounting period. If the reserves originally established for future claims prove inadequate, we would be required to increase our liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

14 

 The obligation for policy and contract claims does not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent our best estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates represent informed judgments based on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Many of these factors are not quantifiable in advance and both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial and legal developments and legislative changes, can cause our estimates to vary. The inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves is greater for certain types of liabilities, where the variables affecting these types of claims are subject to change and long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are periodically refined as experience develops and further losses are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting the level of reserves for policy and contract claims is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure you that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events.   

Each of our business lines may be adversely affected by an overall decline in economic activity.   

 The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and generally falls as such activity decreases, affecting both the commissions and fees generated by our brokerage and consulting businesses and the premiums generated by our underwriting businesses. In particular, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Moreover, the results of our consulting business are generally affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets these clients serve. As our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to delay or forgo consulting engagements with us.   

We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility.   

 As of December 31, 2007, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $2.1 billion. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility.   

A decline in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility.   

 A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper could increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades may trigger obligations of our company to fund certain amounts with respect to our premium finance securitizations. Similarly, a downgrade would increase our commercial paper interest rates or may result in our inability to access the commercial paper market altogether. We cannot assume that our financial position would not be adversely affected if we are unable to access the commercial paper market. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt may also adversely affect the claims-paying ability or financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries. See "A decline in the financial strength or claims-paying ability ratings of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may increase policy cancellations and negatively impact new sales of insurance products" above.   

Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results.   

 We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including those  

15 

relating to reserves to pay policy liabilities, deferred policy acquisition costs, the valuation of investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and changes in accounting standards could increase costs to our organization and could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations.   

We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.   

 Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries, including our insurance underwriting companies. We have to rely on dividends from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations and for paying dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. Payments from our underwriting subsidiaries are limited by governmental regulation and depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries. In some circumstances, specific payments from our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may require prior regulatory approval and we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in the amounts we anticipate or require.   

We cannot guarantee that our underwriting subsidiaries' reinsurers or our reinsurers of our property and casualty business will pay in a timely fashion, if at all.   

 To better manage our portfolio of underwriting risk, we purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we assume (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium that we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred (or ceded) to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Recently, due to industry and general economic conditions, there is an increasing risk of insolvency among reinsurance companies, resulting in a greater incidence of litigation and affecting the recoverability of claims. We cannot assure that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis.  

 In connection with the sale of Aon Warranty Group ("AWG") on November 30, 2006, Aon sold the capital stock of Virginia Surety Company, Inc. ("VSC"). Because VSC issued property and casualty policies, VSC continues to remain liable to property and casualty policyholders. However, pursuant to contractual arrangements entered into as part of the sale of AWG, we have agreed to indemnify the buyer of VSC for all obligations arising out of the property and casualty business, including any failure by reinsurers to meet their obligations with respect to the property and casualty business. We have also agreed to guarantee amounts owed by reinsurers in respect of the Construction Program Group ("CPG") business issued prior to the closing of that transaction. If reinsurers fail to pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to VSC with respect to the property and casualty business (including with respect to CPG business) or do not pay on a timely basis, we will be responsible for these amounts.   

The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   

 We are exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods and tornadoes, and pandemic health events such as avian influenza, as well as man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions. For example, a natural or man-made disaster could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates as policyholders and contract holders who are affected by the disaster may be unable to meet their contractual obligations, such as payment of premiums on our insurance policies. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man-made disaster could  

16 

trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business and increased claims from those areas. Disasters also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations.  

 A natural or man-made disaster also could disrupt the operations of our counterparties or result in increased prices for the products and services they provide to us. In addition, a disaster could adversely affect the value of the assets in our investment portfolio if it affects companies' ability to pay principal or interest on their securities. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster could increase the incidence or severity of E&O claims against the Company.   

In connection with the implementation of our corporate strategy, we face certain risks associated with the acquisition or disposition of businesses.   

 In pursuing our corporate strategy, we may acquire other businesses or dispose of or exit businesses we currently own. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition targets, negotiate transactions on favorable terms and ultimately complete such transactions. If acquisitions are made, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, including revenue growth, operational efficiencies or expected synergies. In addition, we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could incur or assume unknown or unanticipated liabilities or contingencies, which may impact our results of operations. If we dispose of or otherwise exit certain businesses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain disposition-related charges, or that we will be able to reduce overhead related to the divested assets.   

The planned sale of our CICA and Sterling subsidiaries may not occur.   

 In December 2007, we signed separate definitive agreements to sell our CICA and Sterling subsidiaries. We anticipate that the sale of both CICA and Sterling will be finalized in the second quarter of 2008. We cannot be certain that either of these transactions will be completed. If the closing of these transactions does not occur and we continue to own these subsidiaries, we may be subject to additional risk factors as follows:   

A decline in the financial strength or claims-paying ability ratings of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries may increase policy cancellations and negatively impact new sales of insurance products.   

 Financial strength and claims-paying ability ratings are factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies for the purpose of rendering an opinion as to an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. They are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors, nor are they recommendations to buy, sell or hold specific securities. Periodically, the rating agencies evaluate our insurance underwriting subsidiaries to confirm that they continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to them. A downgrade, or the potential for a downgrade, of these ratings could, among other things, increase the number of policy cancellations, adversely affect relationships with brokers, retailers and other distributors of our products and services, negatively impact new sales and adversely affect our ability to compete.  

 CICA, the principal insurance subsidiary that underwrites our supplemental accident and health and life insurance business, is currently rated "A" (excellent; third highest of 16 rating levels) by A.M. Best Company, "A-" (strong; third highest of nine rating levels) for financial strength by Standard and Poor's Rating Services, and "A3" (good; third highest of nine rating levels) for financial strength by Moody's Investors Service and "A-"(strong; third highest of nine rating levels) for financial strength by Fitch Ratings. We cannot assure that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw their financial strength or claims-paying ability ratings in the future.  

17 

Certain legislative and regulatory changes to the Medicare program have materially impacted our operations and could reduce our operating results.   

 Due to a legislative change enacted in late 2006, Private Fee for Service ("PFFS") plans, including those offered by Sterling, were authorized to market and enroll beneficiaries within Medicare Advantage products year-round. This authorization was originally scheduled to remain in place until December 31, 2008. In July, this law was changed back to the pre-2007 policy, which only permitted PFFS plan companies and other Medicare Advantage plans to maintain an open enrollment period from January 1st to March 31st. Accordingly, beginning on August 1, 2007, Sterling and all other Medicare Advantage plans no longer generally maintain the ability to enroll beneficiaries within their plans all year long.  

 In 2008 and beyond, Sterling and all other Medicare Advantage plans will be permitted to enroll Medicare beneficiaries until March 31st of a calendar year, unless a special enrollment period applies. Additionally, Sterling will be able to enroll year-round those individuals just becoming eligible for Medicare. As a result of this repeal of year-round open enrollment, Sterling's primary revenue growth opportunities will now largely be contained to its sales activities of Medicare Advantage products in the first quarter of future years beginning in 2008 (coinciding with the open enrollment period).   

Our financial results could be adversely affected if assumptions used in establishing our underwriting reserves differ from actual experience.   

 We maintain reserves as an estimate of our liability under insurance policies issued by our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. The reserves that we maintain that could cause variability in our financial results consist of (1) unearned premium reserves, (2) policy and contract claim reserves and (3) future policy benefit reserves. Unearned premium reserves generally reflect our liability to return premiums we have collected under policies in the event of the lapse or cancellation of those policies. Under U.S. GAAP, premiums we have collected generally become "earned" over the life of a policy by means of a reduction in the amount of the unearned premium reserve associated with the policy.  

 Policy and contract claim reserves reflect our estimated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees and general expenses for administering the claims adjustment process, and for reported and unreported losses incurred as of the end of each accounting period. If the reserves originally established for future claims prove inadequate, we would be required to increase our liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

 The obligation for policy and contract claims does not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent our best estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates represent informed judgments based on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Many of these factors are not quantifiable in advance and both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial and legal developments and legislative changes, can cause our estimates to vary. The inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves is greater for certain types of liabilities, where the variables affecting these types of claims are subject to change and long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are periodically refined as experience develops and further losses are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting the level of reserves for policy and contract claims is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure you that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events.  

 Future policy benefit reserves generally relate to our liability to provide future life insurance benefits and future supplemental accident and health insurance benefits. Future policy benefit reserves  

18 

on supplemental accident & health and life products have been provided on the net level premium method. These reserves are calculated based on assumptions as to investment yield, mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates that were determined at the date of issue and provide for possible adverse deviations.   

The volume of premiums we write and our profitability are affected by the availability of reinsurance and the size and adequacy of our insurance company subsidiaries' capital base.   

 The level of business that our insurance underwriting subsidiaries are able to write depends on the size and adequacy of their capital base. Many state insurance laws to which they are subject impose risk-based capital requirements for purposes of regulating insurer solvency. Insurers having less statutory surplus than that required by the risk-based capital model formula generally are subject to varying degrees of regulatory scrutiny and intervention, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. As of December 31, 2007, each of our insurance company subsidiaries met the statutory surplus requirements in each jurisdiction in which it conducts business.  

 We purchase reinsurance for certain of the risks underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of business we are able to write and our profitability. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could adversely affect our underwriting business.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 

 None.  

Item 2. Properties.