PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

     CORPORATE STRUCTURE 

 SCANA, a holding company, owns the following direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries:  

 SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to retail and wholesale customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to retail customers.  

 GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G.  

 Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances.  

 PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to retail customers.  

 CGT transports natural gas in South Carolina and southeastern Georgia.  

 SCI provides fiber optic communications, ethernet services and data center facilities and builds, manages and leases communications towers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia.  

 SEMI markets natural gas, primarily in the Southeast, and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas in Georgia's retail market.  

 ServiceCare, Inc. provides service contracts on home appliances and heating and air conditioning units.  

 SCANA Services, Inc. provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA's subsidiaries and business units.  

 SCANA is incorporated in South Carolina, as is each of its direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries. In addition to the subsidiaries above, SCANA owns three other energy-related companies that are insignificant and one additional company that is in liquidation.  

 ORGANIZATION 

 SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA holds, directly or indirectly, all of the capital stock of each of its subsidiaries. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2011 and 2010 of 5,877 and 5,828, respectively. SCE&G is an operating public utility incorporated in 1924 as a South Carolina corporation. SCE&G had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2011 and 2010 of 3,173 and 3,108, respectively.  

 INVESTOR INFORMATION 

 SCANA's and SCE&G's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA's internet website at  www.scana.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished. Information on SCANA's website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

 SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS 

 For information with respect to major segments of business, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 12). All such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

7 

Table of Contents 

 SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties. SCANA, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the functionally distinct operations described below.  

Regulated Utilities  

 SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 660,600 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 313,500 customers (each as of December 31, 2010). SCE&G's business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G's electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 17,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 35 counties in South Carolina and covers approximately 22,600 square miles. More than 3.2 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include chemicals, educational services, paper products, food products, lumber and wood products, health services, textile manufacturing, rubber and miscellaneous plastic products and fabricated metal products.  

 GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G.  

 Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances.  

 PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 482,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2010). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The predominant industries served by PSNC Energy include educational services, food products, health services, chemicals, non-woven textiles and construction related materials.  

 CGT operates as an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by FERC. CGT operates in southeastern Georgia and in South Carolina and has interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia and with Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. CGT also has interconnections with Southern Natural in Aiken County, South Carolina, and with Transco in Cherokee and Spartanburg counties, South Carolina. CGT's customers include SCE&G (which uses natural gas for electricity generation and for gas distribution to retail customers), SEMI (which markets natural gas to industrial and sale for resale customers, primarily in the Southeast), other natural gas utilities, municipalities, county gas authorities, and industrial customers primarily engaged in the manufacturing or processing of ceramics, paper, metal, food and textiles.  

Nonregulated Businesses  

 SEMI markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to approximately 460,000 customers (as of December 31, 2010) in Georgia's natural gas market. The GPSC has selected SCANA Energy to serve as the state's regulated provider until August 31, 2012. Included in the above customer count, SCANA Energy serves approximately 90,000 customers (as of December 31, 2010) under this regulated provider contract, which includes low-income and high credit risk customers. SCANA Energy's total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia's deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.  

8 

Table of Contents 

 SCI owns and operates a 500-mile fiber optic telecommunications network and ethernet network and data center facilities in South Carolina. Through a joint venture, SCI has an interest in an additional 2,280 miles of fiber in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. SCI also provides tower site construction, management and rental services in South Carolina and North Carolina.  

 The preceding Corporate Structure section describes other businesses owned by SCANA.  

 COMPETITION 

 For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

 SCANA's regulated subsidiaries, including SCE&G, require cash to fund operations, construction programs and dividend payments to SCANA. SCANA's nonregulated subsidiaries require cash to fund operations and dividend payments to SCANA. To replace existing plant investment and to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, SCANA's regulated subsidiaries must attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, when requested.  

 For a discussion of various rate matters and their impact on capital requirements, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 During the period 2011-2013, SCANA and SCE&G expect to meet capital requirements through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and short-term and long-term borrowings. SCANA and SCE&G expect that they have or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet their projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.  

 For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 SCANA's ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 2.92, 2.84, 3.04, 3.03 and 2.94 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. SCE&G's ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 3.18, 3.25, 3.51, 3.40 and 3.32 for the same periods.  

9 

Table of Contents 

 ELECTRIC OPERATIONS 

Electric Sales  

 SCE&G's sales of electricity and margins earned from the sale of electricity by customer classification as a percent of electric revenues for 2009 and 2010 were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 Sales for resale include sales to three municipalities and two electric cooperatives. Sales under NMST during 2010 include sales to eight investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, two electric cooperatives and three federal/state electric agencies. During 2009 sales under the NMST included sales to nine investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, three electric cooperatives and three federal/state electric agencies.  

 During 2010 SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 5,600 electric customers (growth rate of 0.9%), increasing its total electric customers to approximately 660,600 at year end.  

 For the period 2011-2013, SCE&G projects total territorial KWh sales of electricity to increase 1.3% annually (assuming normal weather), total electric customer base to increase 1.7% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to increase 1.8% annually. While SCE&G's goal is to maintain a reserve margin of between 12% and 18%, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall below the reserve margin goal.  

Electric Interconnections  

 SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO's Williams Station under a Unit Power Sales Agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 605 MW.  

 SCE&G's transmission system is part of an interconnected grid extending over a large part of the southern and eastern portions of the nation. SCE&G interconnects with Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, and Santee Cooper. SCE&G also interconnects with Georgia Power Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation and the Southeastern Power Administration's Clarks Hill (Thurmond) Project. SCE&G, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Santee Cooper, Dominion Virginia Power and ALCOA Power Generating, Inc. (Yadkin Division), are members of VACAR, one of several geographic divisions within the SERC. SERC is one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards approved by NERC within the SERC region. SERC is divided geographically into five diverse sub-regions that are identified as Central, Delta, Gateway, Southeastern and VACAR. The regional entities and all members of NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America. For a discussion of the impact certain legislative and regulatory initiatives may have on SCE&G's transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of  

10 

Table of Contents 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply  

 The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) for the years 2008-2010 follow:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 The sources and percentages of total MWh generation by each category of fuel for the years 2008-2010 and the estimates for the years 2011-2013 follow:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 Six of the seven fossil fuel-fired plants use coal. Unit trains and, in some cases, trucks and barges deliver coal to these plants.  

 During 2009, as coal costs increased and gas prices decreased, SCE&G's mix of generation dispatched shifted.  

 Coal is obtained through long-term supply contracts and spot market purchases. Long-term contracts exist with suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 4.0 million tons annually, which is substantially all expected coal purchases for 2011. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from 1% to 2%. These contracts expire at various times through 2014. Spot market purchases are expected to continue when needed or when prices are believed to be favorable.  

 SCANA and SCE&G believe that SCE&G's operations comply with all existing regulations relating to the discharge of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 On January 27, 2011, SCE&G, for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, and Westinghouse entered into a fuel alliance agreement and contracts for fuel fabrication and related services. Under  

11 

Table of Contents 

these contracts, Westinghouse will supply enriched nuclear fuel assemblies for Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units. Westinghouse will be SCE&G's exclusive provider of such fuel assemblies on a cost-plus basis. The fuel assemblies to be delivered under the contracts are expected to supply the nuclear fuel requirements of Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units through 2033. SCE&G is dependent upon Westinghouse for providing fuel assemblies for the new AP1000 passive reactors in the New Units in the current and anticipated future absence of other commercially viable sources. Westinghouse currently provides maintenance and engineering support to Summer Station Unit 1 under a services alliance arrangement, and SCE&G has also contracted for Westinghouse to provide similar support services to the New Units upon their completion and commencement of commercial operation in 2016 and 2019, respectively.  

 In addition to the above-described contracts for fuel fabrication and related services, SCE&G has contracts covering its nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services and enrichment services. These contracts have varying expiration dates in the next 11 years. SCE&G believes that it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services and that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of its nuclear generating units.  

 SCE&G can store spent nuclear fuel on-site until at least 2017 and expects to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Summer Station Unit 1 through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. In addition, Summer Station Unit 1 has sufficient on-site storage capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the DOE regarding disposal of spent fuel, see  Hazardous and Solid Wastes within the Environmental Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 GAS OPERATIONS 

Gas Sales-Regulated  

 Regulated sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported for 2009 and 2010 were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 For the three-year period 2011-2013, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in DTs to increase 1.7% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in DT sales include residential of 1.8%, commercial of 0.8% and industrial of 2.0%.  

 For the three-year period 2011-2013, SCE&G projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in DTs to increase 0.4% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in DT sales include residential of 0.6%, commercial of 0.2% and industrial of 0.7%.  

12 

 Table of Contents  

 For the three-year period 2011-2013, SCANA's and SCE&G's total consolidated regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase annually 1.9% and 1.2%, respectively. During 2010 SCANA recorded a net increase of approximately 12,600 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 1.6%), increasing its regulated gas customers to approximately 794,800. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 3,677 gas customers (growth rate of 1.2%), increasing its total gas customers to approximately 313,500 (as of December 31, 2010).  

 Demand for gas changes primarily due to the effect of weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels.  

Gas Cost, Supply and Curtailment Plans   

 South Carolina   

 SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers in both the spot and long-term markets. The gas is delivered to South Carolina through firm transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2013), Transco (expiring in 2012 and 2017) and CGT (expiring in 2011 and 2012). The maximum daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts is 161,144 DT from Southern Natural, 64,652 DT from Transco and 314,529 DT from CGT. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered to SCE&G's system as capacity is available through interruptible transportation. In addition, SCE&G, under contract with SEMI, is entitled to receive up to a daily contract demand of 120,000 DT for use in either electric generation or for resale to SCE&G's customers.  

 The daily volume of gas that SEMI is entitled to transport under its service agreement with CGT (expiring in 2023) on a firm basis is 198,083 DT.  

 SCE&G purchased natural gas at an average cost of $6.38 per MCF during 2010 and $7.01 per MCF during 2009.  

 SCE&G was allocated 5,437 MMCF of natural gas storage capacity on Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 3,892 MMCF of gas were in storage on December 31, 2010. To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG liquefaction and storage facilities. The LNG plants are capable of storing the liquefied equivalent of 1,880 MMCF of natural gas. Approximately 1,558 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage on December 31, 2010.   

 North Carolina   

 PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at current prices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at index prices plus a reservation charge. Transco and Dominion deliver the gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging through 2016. On a peak day, PSNC Energy may transport daily volumes of gas under these contracts on a firm basis of 279,894 DT from Transco and 7,331 DT from Dominion.  

 PSNC Energy purchased natural gas at an average cost of $5.95 per DT during 2010 compared to $6.02 per DT during 2009.  

 To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion, Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 13,000 MMCF. Approximately 9,200 MMCF of gas were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2010. In addition, PSNC Energy's LNG facility can store the liquefied  

13 

Table of Contents 

equivalent of 1,000 MMCF of natural gas with regasification capability of approximately 100 MMCF per day. Approximately 700 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2010. LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG provide for 1,300 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 800 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2010.  

 SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth.  

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated  

 SEMI markets natural gas and provides energy-related risk management services primarily in the Southeast. In addition, SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to approximately 460,000 customers (as of December 31, 2010) in Georgia's natural gas market. SCANA Energy's total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia's deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.  

Risk Management  

 SCANA and SCE&G have established policies and procedures and risk limits to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational and administrative risks assumed by them. SCANA's Board of Directors has delegated to a Risk Management Committee the authority to set risk limits, establish policies and procedures for risk management and measurement, and to oversee and review the risk management process and infrastructure for SCANA and each of its subsidiaries. The Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of certain officers, including a Risk Management Officer and several senior officers, apprises the Board of Directors with regard to the management of risk and brings to the Board's attention any areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved, as well as the authorization requirements and limits for transactions.  

 REGULATION 

 SCANA is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC as to certain acquisitions and other matters.  

 SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters; the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters; and FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, certain acquisitions and other matters.  

 GENCO is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, accounting, certain acquisitions and other matters.  

 PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, service, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters.  

 CGT is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to transportation rates, service, accounting and other matters.  

 SCANA Energy is regulated by the GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically is subject to the jurisdiction of the GPSC as to retail prices for customers served under the regulated provider contract.  

14 

Table of Contents 

 SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting. See the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 SCE&G and GENCO have obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue up to $1.2 billion of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less, and GENCO may issue up to $150 million of such short-term indebtedness. The authority to make such issuances will expire in October 2012.  

 SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 SCE&G is presently operating the Saluda project under an annual license (scheduled to expire in August) while its application to FERC for a long-term license is pending. SCE&G's re-licensing application is currently being reviewed by FERC.  

 At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, may issue a license to another applicant or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages.  

 For a discussion of legislative and regulatory initiatives being implemented that will affect SCE&G's transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 SCE&G is subject to regulation by the NRC with respect to the ownership, construction, operation and decommissioning of its currently operating and planned nuclear generating facilities. The NRC's jurisdiction encompasses broad supervisory and regulatory powers over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, including matters of health and safety, antitrust considerations and environmental impact. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency reviews, in conjunction with the NRC, certain aspects of emergency planning relating to the operation of nuclear plants.  

 RATE MATTERS 

 For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 SCE&G's gas rate schedules for its residential, small commercial and small industrial customers include a WNA approved by the SCPSC which is in effect for bills rendered for billing cycles in November through April. The WNA increases tariff rates if weather is warmer than normal and decreases rates if weather is colder than normal. The WNA does not change the seasonality of gas revenues, but reduces fluctuations in revenues and earnings caused by abnormal weather.  

15 

Table of Contents 

 PSNC Energy is authorized by the NCUC to utilize a CUT which allows PSNC Energy to adjust its base rates semi-annually for residential and commercial customers based on average per customer consumption whether impacted by weather or other factors.  

 On July 15, 2010, the SCPSC issued an order approving a 4.88% overall increase in SCE&G's retail electric base rates and authorized an allowed return on common equity of 10.7%. The SCPSC's order adopted various stipulations among SCE&G, the ORS and other intervening parties. Among other things, the SCPSC's order (1) included implementation of an eWNA for SCE&G's electric customers, which began in August 2010, (2) provided for a $25 million credit, over one year, to SCE&G's customers to be offset by amortization of weather-related revenues which were deferred in the first quarter of 2010 pursuant to a stipulation between SCE&G and ORS, (3) provided for a $48.7 million credit to SCE&G's customers over two years to be offset by accelerated recognition of previously deferred state income tax credits and (4) provided for the recovery of certain federally-mandated capital expenditures that had been included in utility plant but were not being depreciated.  

 On July 15, 2010, the SCPSC issued an order approving the implementation by SCE&G of certain DSM Programs, including the establishment of an annual rider to allow recovery of the costs and lost net margin revenue associated with DSM Programs, along with an incentive for investing in such programs. The SCPSC's order approved various settlement agreements among SCE&G, the ORS and other intervening parties. On July 27, 2010, SCE&G filed the DSM rate rider tariff sheet with the SCPSC. The tariff rider was applied to bills rendered on or after October 30, 2010. The order requires that SCE&G submit annual filings before the SCPSC regarding the DSM programs, net lost revenues, program costs, incentive and net program benefits.  

 In January 2010, the SCPSC approved SCE&G's request for an order pursuant to the BLRA to approve an updated construction and capital cost schedule for the construction of the New Units at Summer Station. The updated schedule provides details of the construction and capital cost schedule beyond what was proposed and included in the original BLRA filing. The revised schedule does not change the previously announced completion date for the New Units or the originally announced cost.  

 In February 2009, the SCPSC approved SCE&G's combined application pursuant to the BLRA seeking a certificate of environmental compatibility and public convenience and necessity and for a base load review order relating to the proposed construction and operation by SCE&G and Santee Cooper of the New Units at Summer Station. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC conducted a full pre-construction prudency review of the proposed units and the engineering, procurement, and construction contract under which they are being built. The SCPSC prudency finding is binding on all future related rate proceedings so long as the construction proceeds in accordance with schedules, estimates and projections as approved by the SCPSC.  

 In May 2009, two intervenors filed separate appeals of the order with the South Carolina Supreme Court. With regard to the first appeal, which challenged the SCPSC's prudency finding, the South Carolina Supreme Court issued an opinion on April 26, 2010, affirming the decision of the SCPSC. As for the second appeal, the South Carolina Supreme Court reversed the SCPSC's decision to allow SCE&G to include a pre-approved cost contingency amount associated inflation (contingency reserve) as part of its anticipated capital costs allowed under the BLRA. SCE&G's share of the project, as originally approved by the SCPSC, is $4.5 billion in 2007 dollars. Approximately $438 million of the anticipated capital costs (in 2007 dollars) represented contingency costs associated with the project. Without the pre-approved contingency reserve, SCE&G must seek SCPSC approval for the recovery of any additional capital costs. The Court's ruling, however, does not affect the project schedule or disturb the SCPSC's issuance of a certificate of environmental compatibility and public convenience and necessity, which is necessary to construct the New Units. On November 15, 2010, SCE&G filed a petition to the SCPSC seeking an order approving an updated capital cost schedule for the construction of the company's New Units that reflects the removal of the contingency reserve and incorporates  

16 

Table of Contents 

presently identifiable additional capital costs of $173.9 million. A hearing on this petition is scheduled for April 4, 2011, and the SCPSC is expected to rule on the request in May 2011.  

 Under the BLRA, SCE&G is allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate the financing cost of any incremental construction work in progress incurred for new nuclear generation. Requested rate adjustments are based on SCE&G's updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11%. In October 2010, the SCPSC approved an increase of $47.3 million or 2.3%, under the BLRA. The new retail electric rates were effective for bills rendered on and after October 30, 2010. In November 2010 SCE&G filed its quarterly report updating the status of the project including capital costs and the construction schedule.  

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures  

 The SCPSC's fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G's retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any over-collection or under-collection from the preceding 12-month period. The statutory definition of fuel costs includes certain variable environmental costs, such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and particulates. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding concerning its fuel costs at any time should circumstances dictate such a review.  

 SCE&G's electric rates are established using a cost of fuel component approved by the SCPSC which may be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the price of fuel purchased by SCE&G. Effective with the first billing cycle of May 2010, the SCPSC approved a settlement agreement authorizing SCE&G to decrease the fuel cost portion of its electric rates. The settlement agreement incorporated SCE&G's proposal to accelerate the recognition of $17.4 million of previously deferred state income tax credits and record an offsetting reduction to the recovery of undercollected fuel costs. In addition, SCE&G agreed to defer recovery of its actual undercollected base fuel costs as of April 30, 2010 until May 2011. SCE&G is allowed to charge and recover carrying costs monthly on the actual base fuel costs undercollected balance as of the end of each month during this deferral period.  

 SCE&G's natural gas tariffs include a PGA clause that provides for the recovery of actual gas cost incurred, including costs related to hedging natural gas purchasing activities. SCE&G's rates are calculated using a methodology which adjusts the cost of gas monthly based on a 12-month rolling average. The annual PGA hearing to review SCE&G's gas purchasing policies and procedures was conducted in November 2010 before the SCPSC. The SCPSC issued an order in December 2010 finding that SCE&G's gas purchasing policies and practices during the review period of August 1, 2009 through July 31, 2010, were reasonable and prudent.  

 PSNC Energy is subject to a Rider D rate mechanism which allows it to recover, in any manner authorized by the NCUC, losses on negotiated gas and transportation sales. The Rider D rate mechanism also allows PSNC Energy to recover from customers all prudently incurred gas costs and certain uncollectible expenses related to gas cost.  

 PSNC Energy's rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas. PSNC Energy revises its tariffs with the NCUC as necessary to track these changes and accounts for any over- or under-collections of the delivered cost of gas in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNC Energy's gas purchasing practices annually.  

 In October 2010, the NCUC approved a 12.5 cent per therm decrease in the cost of gas component of PSNC Energy's rates. The rate adjustment was effective with the first billing cycle in November 2010. In February 2010, the NCUC approved a ten cent per therm increase in the cost of gas component of PSNC Energy's rates. The rate adjustment was effective with the first billing cycle in March 2010.  

17 

 Table of Contents  

 In October 2010, in connection with PSNC Energy's 2010 Annual Prudence Review, the NCUC determined that PSNC Energy's gas costs, including all hedging transactions, were reasonable and prudently incurred during the 12 months ended March 31, 2010.  

 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

 Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of these regulations and standards upon existing and proposed operations cannot be predicted. For a more complete discussion of how these regulations and standards impact SCANA and SCE&G, see the Environmental Matters section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.  

 OTHER MATTERS 

 For a discussion of SCE&G's insurance coverage for Summer Station Unit 1, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.  

     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS