PART I  

 Item 1. Business   

Overview  

We are a leading provider of technology, services and solutions to the diagnostics, detection and analysis and photonics markets. We design, manufacture, market and service components, systems and products in two reporting segments:  

   •    Life and Analytical Sciences. We are a leading provider of analysis tools, including instruments, reagents, software, and consumables, to the analytical sciences, genetic screening, BioDiscovery and laboratory services markets.  

   •    Optoelectronics. We provide a broad range of medical imaging, optical sensor and specialty lighting components used in medical, consumer products and other specialty end markets.  

The health sciences markets include all of the businesses in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment and our medical imaging business, as well as elements of the medical sensors and lighting businesses in our Optoelectronics segment. The photonics markets include the remaining businesses in our Optoelectronics segment.  

In fiscal 2007, we had $1,787.3 million in sales from continuing operations.  

We are a Massachusetts corporation, founded in 1947. Our headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts, and we market our products and services in more than 150 countries. As of December 30, 2007, we had approximately 8,700 employees. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and we are a component of the S&P 500 Index.  

We maintain a website with the address http://www.perkinelmer.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Our Strategy  

Our strategy is focused on providing innovative products, applications, and services that drive productivity improvements in targeted high growth market segments and developing value-added applications and solutions to foster continued market development and expansion. For example, during 2007, we launched EcoAnalytix™, a global initiative to provide product, training, support and service offerings targeting food safety, water quality and biofuels development applications. To execute on our strategy and drive higher revenue growth, we focus on broadening our product and service offerings through the acquisition of innovative technology and expenditures for research and development. Our strategy includes:  

   •    Accelerating innovation through both internal research and development and the pursuit of third-party collaborations and alliances;  

   •    Achieving significant growth in both of our segments through strategic acquisitions and licensing;  

   •    Strengthening our position within key markets, by expanding our product and service offerings and maintaining superior product quality;  

   •    Utilizing our share repurchase programs to help drive shareholder value; and  

   •    Attracting, retaining and developing talented and motivated employees.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Recent Developments  

As part of our strategy to grow our core businesses, we have taken the following actions in 2007:  

Acquisitions:  

Newborn Metabolic Screening Business from Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. In December 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire the outstanding stock of Pediatrix Screening, Inc., which constitutes the newborn metabolic screening (“NMS”) business of Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. The NMS business provides neonatal screening and consultative services to hospitals, medical groups and various states. This acquisition is intended to expand our capabilities to supply state laboratories and other agencies with comprehensive newborn screening solutions. This transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2008.  

ViaCell, Inc. In November 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary completed a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ViaCell, Inc. (“ViaCell”), at a price of $7.25 per share. ViaCell specializes in the collection, testing, processing and preservation of umbilical cord blood stem cells. Through the tender offer, our wholly owned subsidiary acquired more than 90% of the outstanding shares of common stock of ViaCell. We acquired the remaining outstanding shares of ViaCell by means of a merger of our wholly owned subsidiary with and into ViaCell, as a result of which ViaCell became our wholly owned subsidiary. The addition of ViaCell’s ViaCord® product offering for the preservation of umbilical cord blood, and its sales and marketing organization, is expected to facilitate the expansion of our neonatal and prenatal businesses. Aggregate consideration for this transaction was approximately $295.8 million in cash, which excludes $31.8 million in acquired cash. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible.  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, we committed to a preliminary plan of integration of certain ViaCell activities that included workforce reductions. As of December 30, 2007, we recorded $1.2 million of severance liabilities with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 95-3, “Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination” (“EITF 95-3”). We had not finalized the preliminary integration plan as of December 30, 2007, but we expect to complete the plan no later than one year from the date of acquisition.  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, our Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved a plan to sell the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses that were acquired with ViaCell. The ViaCyteSM business focuses on the development of a proprietary media intended for the cryopreservation of human unfertilized oocytes. The Cellular Therapy Technology business focuses on the development of therapeutic uses of unrestricted somatic stem cells derived from umbilical cord blood, including the areas of cancer, cardiac disease and diabetes. We have determined that both businesses do not strategically fit with the other products offered by the Life and Analytical Sciences segment. We also determined that without investing capital into the operations of both businesses, we could not effectively compete in the marketplace with larger companies which focus on the market for such products. We are actively marketing and are currently committed to a plan to sell both of these businesses. We have classified the results of the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.  

Remaining minority interest of PerkinElmer India Pvt. Ltd. In June 2007, we acquired the remaining minority interest in PerkinElmer India Pvt. Ltd. (“PKI India”), a direct sales, service and marketing operation targeting India’s life science and analytical instrumentation markets, from Labindia Instruments Pvt. Ltd. The acquisition establishes PKI India as our wholly owned subsidiary. Consideration for this transaction was approximately $1.3 million in cash plus potential additional consideration of approximately $0.7 million, of which we paid $0.2 million during the fiscal year 2007. We expect to pay the remaining $0.5 million in quarterly installments through the first quarter of 2008. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible.  

Improvision Ltd. In March 2007, we acquired the stock of Improvision Ltd. (“Improvision”), a leading provider of cellular imaging software and integrated hardware solutions used in life sciences research. We expect   

4  

Table of Contents 

 that the addition of Improvision’s imaging and analysis software to our high content screening systems will provide customers with powerful imaging solutions for analyzing cellular events, from real-time imaging of live cells to rapid high content screening of multiple samples. Consideration for this transaction was approximately $23.6 million in cash plus potential additional contingent consideration, which we expect to be immaterial to us. During 2007, we paid $0.6 million for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible.  

Euroscreen Products S.A. In January 2007, we acquired the stock of Euroscreen Products S.A. (“Euroscreen”), a developer of the AequoScreen™ cellular assay platform. The AequoScreen™ platform from Euroscreen is based on an innovative luminescence technology that generates higher quality data, while reducing the number of false positives in G protein-coupled receptor (“GPCR”) screening applications. Consideration for this transaction was approximately $18.1 million in cash. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible.  

Evotec Technologies GmbH. In January 2007, we acquired the stock of Evotec Technologies GmbH (“Evotec”). The acquisition is intended to allow us to provide our customers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic arenas with Evotec’s high content screening instruments and software. These analysis tools determine the composition of cells and cell structure, a critical step in moving potential drug targets quickly through the discovery process. Consideration for this transaction was approximately $33.0 million in cash, which was paid in fiscal year 2006. During 2007, we received $1.2 million for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible.  

The operations for each of these acquisitions completed during fiscal 2007 have been reported within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

We took the following actions in 2007 to further focus our core businesses:  

Share Repurchase Program:  

On November 6, 2006, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of our common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). The Repurchase Program will expire on October 25, 2010 unless this authorization is terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal 2007, we repurchased in the open market approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $203.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value.  

Restructuring:  

During fiscal 2007, we incurred $14.4 million in pre-tax restructuring and lease charges. During the first and fourth quarters of 2007, our management approved separate plans for workforce reductions in several locations and partial closure of a facility. The purpose of the restructuring plans approved in the first and fourth quarters of 2007 was principally to shift resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. The pre-tax restructuring activity associated with these plans has been reported as restructuring expenses as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate and future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we have incurred and will incur offsetting costs.  

Leadership Succession Plan:  

We announced on July 26, 2007 that our Board had approved a leadership succession plan. On July 25, 2007, our Board elected Robert F. Friel to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective August 1, 2007. Mr. Friel had previously served as Vice Chairman of the Company and President of our   

5  

Table of Contents 

 Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and he remains a Director of the Company. On January 23, 2008, our Board elected Mr. Friel Chief Executive Officer and appointed Gregory L. Summe Executive Chairman of the Board, effective February 1, 2008. As Executive Chairman of the Board, Mr. Summe will continue to work for the Company at a reduced schedule until the earlier of April 21, 2009 or the date of our 2009 annual meeting of shareholders (the “2009 Meeting Date”). Our Board intends that Mr. Summe will remain a Director until the 2009 Meeting Date, at which time Mr. Summe will step down as Executive Chairman and as a member of the Board.  

Life and Analytical Sciences  

Our Life and Analytical Sciences segment is a leading provider of analytical sciences, genetic screening, BioDiscovery and laboratory services solutions, including instruments, reagents, software, and consumables. Our instruments are used in daily applications for scientific research and clinical applications. Our research products provide the fundamental tools necessary for a variety of applications that are critical to the development of many of our customers’ new products and academic projects. In fiscal 2007, our Life and Analytical Sciences segment generated sales of $1,327.2 million.  

For analytical sciences solutions, we offer analytical tools employing technologies such as molecular and atomic spectroscopy, inductively coupled plasma, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, and thermal analysis. During 2007, we launched EcoAnalytix™, a global initiative to provide product, training, support and service offerings targeting food safety, water quality and biofuels development applications. Our instruments and related application solutions measure a range of substances from biomolecular matter to organic and inorganic chemicals. We sell these products to customers in the forensics, environmental, food and beverage, consumer safety, sustainable energy, pharmaceutical, semiconductor and hydrocarbon processing/biofuels markets. These customers use our instruments in various applications to verify the identity, quality or composition of the materials they examine.  

For genetic screening and clinical laboratories, we provide instrumentation, software, reagents and analytical tools to test for various inherited metabolic or endocrinological disorders in newborns and to assess risk during pregnancy. Our product range includes both screening and confirmatory diagnostic products. We sell our genetic screening solutions to public health authorities, private healthcare organizations and doctors around the world. With the addition of ViaCell, we also offer expectant families the opportunity to preserve their baby’s umbilical cord blood at the time of birth for potential medical use by the child or a related family member for a number of disorders, including some for which we have screening programs.  

For BioDiscovery solutions, we offer a wide range of systems consisting of instrumentation, software and consumables, including reagents, based on our core expertise in cellular sciences, time-resolved fluorescence, chemiluminescence, radioactive labeling, and the detection of proteins and nucleic acids. We sell our biopharmaceutical solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic research customers around the world.  

For service and support, we offer customers a range of products including service plans, preventive maintenance, qualification, training, and upgrades. OneSource® , our maintenance management platform, helps customers consolidate the essential maintenance and asset management needs of their laboratory(s). Through acquisitions, our services have expanded to include a broad range of multi-vendor maintenance solutions.  

Principal Products. The principal products of our Life and Analytical Sciences business include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    The NeoGram™ MS/MS AAAC in vitro diagnostic kit, is used to support detection of metabolic disorders in newborns by tandem mass spectrometry.  

    •    Ultra-Screen® is a first trimester prenatal screening protocol combining ultrasound measurement of the fluid accumulation behind the neck of the fetus (nuchal translucency) with maternal serum markers. It is designed to assess patient-specific risk for Down Syndrome, trisomy 18 and other chromosomal abnormalities.  

6  

Table of Contents 

   •    The Spectral Genomics Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization (“CGH”) platform provides tools for improving gene expression validation, molecular karyotyping and genome profiling.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The Series 200 family of high performance liquid chromatography (“HPLC”) systems is used to identify and quantify compounds for applications in the environmental, food and beverage, and pharmaceutical industries.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    A range of Raman spectroscopy instruments that provide laboratories with the ability to analyze solids, liquids, powders, gels, slurries and aqueous solutions in bulk or to address variations in sample distribution with imaging. The technology applies to a wide range of sectors including pharmaceuticals, industrial, forensics and academia.  

   •    The DMA 8000 is a thermal analysis system used by scientists in the polymers, composites, pharmaceutical, and food and beverage industries for applications ranging from simple quality control to advanced research.  

    •    Spectrum™ high performance Fourier Transform Infrared (“FT-IR”) and Fourier Transform Near-Infrared (“FT-NIR”) spectrometers provide a wide range of capabilities for infrared analysis in pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals, polymers, plastics, and many other industries.  

    •    The LABWORKS™ laboratory information management system (“LIMS”) is a robust information management system that enables scientists to store, share and create reports on laboratory data in both small and large laboratory environments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    EnVision™, a multilabel reader used in a wide range of high-throughput screening applications, features two detectors enabling simultaneous dual wavelength reading, below emission reading, barcode readers, a high speed light source, and adjustment of measurement height function. The instrument is fully configurable, accepting microplates from 96 to 1,536 wells, and can be integrated into robotic systems.  

    •    The JANUS® Automated Workstation, an automation and liquid handling system consisting of a modular platform that enables one or two pipetting arms with different tip configurations as well as one-plate movement arm on a single workstation. JANUS is designed for the efficient automation of sample preparation procedures utilized in pharmaceutical, biotech, and research applications.  

    •    The UltraVIEW™ ERS Confocal Imaging System is a high-resolution, live cell imaging system that allows for the observation and measurement of cellular and molecular processes.  

New Products. New products introduced or acquired in 2007 by our Life and Analytical Sciences business include:  

    •    ViaCord®, a product offering that provides expectant families the opportunity to preserve their baby’s umbilical cord blood at the time of birth for potential medical use by the child or a related family member.  

    •    EcoAnalytix™, a global initiative to provide product, training, support and service offerings targeting food safety, water quality and biofuels development applications.  

7  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    The Melamine Analyzer, based on the Clarus® 600 T Gas Chromatograph/Mass Spectrometer that detects the presence of melamine—a nitrogen-rich industrial chemical—in protein-based foods.  

   •    The PAH Analyzer, based upon the Series 200 UV/VIS/Fluorescent HPLC for analysis of PAH, a family of organic pollutants widely distributed in the environment that can be carcinogenic.  

    •    AequoScreen™ is a comprehensive set of cell lines expressing photoproteins that can be used in high throughput screening for drug discovery in the pharmaceutical industry. This technology is focused on one of the major families of targets for new drugs, the G protein coupled receptors and ion channels.  

   •    The Volocity 3D Visualization Software is used for high resolution image rendering in confocal microscopy. This software is used in conjunction with our UltraVIEW VoX system that employs custom-designed optics, cameras and spinning disk confocal scanners. The system enables researchers to generate real-time multi-dimensional data in vivo of cellular events very rapidly.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Brand Names. Our Life and Analytical Sciences segment offers additional products under various brand names, including Wallac®, Packard®, NEN®, OneSource®, AutoDELFIA®, HyperDSC®, LAMBDA™, EcoAnalytix™, Evolution™, Chromera™, MultiPROBE®, FlashBlue™, ScanArray™ , Victor™, Opera™ and ViaCord®.  

Optoelectronics  

Our Optoelectronics segment provides a broad range of medical imaging, optical sensor and specialty lighting components used in medical, consumer products, and other specialty end markets. For fiscal 2007, our Optoelectronics segment generated sales of $460.1 million.  

We are a leading supplier of amorphous silicon flat panel detectors, a technology for diagnostic medical imaging and radiation therapy. Amorphous silicon flat panel detectors replace film and produce improved image resolution and diagnostic capability for use in radiography, angiography, cardiac and cancer treatment. The amorphous silicon technology is important to medical imaging applications as well as to industrial nondestructive testing for defect recognition within automated manufacturing lines.  

Our specialty lighting technologies include xenon flashtubes, ceramic xenon light sources, intense pulsed light, laser pump sources, and LEDs. These products are used in a variety of applications including mobile phones, digital still and analog cameras, medical endoscopy equipment, home theater projectors, aesthetic applications including hair removal, skin rejuvenation and acne treatment, and laser machine tools.  

We have significant expertise in optical sensor technologies, with products used in a variety of applications. Some of the applications in which our optical sensors are used include sample detection in life sciences instruments, x-ray luggage screening, safety and security applications such as smoke detectors, HVAC controls, document handling/sorting, smart weaponry and non-contact temperature measurements for applications such as ear thermometers and consumer appliances.  

Principal Products. The principal products of our Optoelectronics business include:  

   •    Amorphous silicon flat panel detectors, an enabling technology for digital x-ray imaging that replaces film and produces improved image resolution and diagnostic capability in applications such as radiography, cardiology, angiography and cancer treatments.  

   •    Xenon flashtubes and flash modules for use in mobile phone cameras, digital still cameras, 35mm compact cameras and single-use cameras.  

8  

Table of Contents 

    •    Cermax® xenon short arc lamps and fiber optic light sources used in diagnostic and surgical endoscopes, surgical headlamps, microscopes and phototherapy systems.  

    •    Cermax® xenon lamps utilized in front projection applications for home theater, conference rooms and auditoriums which are able to deliver the required brightness while minimizing sacrifices in color performance.  

   •    Linear xenon and argon flashlamps used in solid-state lasers in machine tools and other industrial applications.  

   •    LED light sources coupled with photodiodes for signal detection, used in sensor modules for hand-held blood glucose meters. The sensing module works as the optical detection unit of the system and an LED-based reflective sensor is incorporated into the blood glucose meter to read out tracking information on the consumables.  

   •    Thermopile temperature sensors used in digital ear thermometers.  

   •    Avalanche photodiode detectors for molecular imaging instrumentation, including pre-clinical Positron Emission Tomography (“PET”) scanners used by the medical research community to image molecular biology activity in small animals.  

   •    Optical sensors used in a variety of safety and security applications, including x-ray luggage screening and smoke alarms, laser printers, copiers and other consumer applications, HVAC systems for monitoring of harmful gases in households, various automotive applications, and smart weaponry.  

   •    Charge-coupled device cameras, used to detect defects in manufacturing processes, pilot vision systems and document sorting.  

   •    A range of products used in military and aerospace applications including lighting, power supplies and other specialty components.  

    •    A wide range of optical detectors and light sources used in analytical instruments, drug discovery tools and clinical diagnostic systems. The detectors include charge coupled devices, avalanche photodiodes, photodiode arrays, channel photo multipliers, and our unique single photon counting module. The light sources include our Cermax® xenon short arc lamps described above as well as our line of guided arc xenon flash lamps. We also produce ultraviolet-visible range spectrometer sub-systems based on the above components.  

New Products. New products introduced in 2007 by our Optoelectronics business include:  

   •    New amorphous silicon flat panel detectors, which offer enhanced imaging modes for use in fluoroscopic diagnostic medical imaging applications.  

   •    New 8-inch and 16-inch amorphous silicon flat panel detectors, which offer enhanced speed and image quality for use in digital data acquisition of x-ray images for therapeutic radiation oncology treatment and industrial inspection applications.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    PAX family of precision-aligned xenon integrated light source for a variety of clinical diagnostics, life sciences, and analytical instrumentation applications, including the new PAX-10™ model, a fully integrated lamp module providing precision arc alignment, “plug and play” field replacement, and ease of installation.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

9  

Table of Contents 

 combinations. The new ACULED® DYO™ product line provides customers with the capability to “design your own” custom four-chip LED configuration to suit specific lighting application needs.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    Pulsed Multi EPI-Cavity Plastic Lasers which include both double and triple EPI-cavity structures in low-cost, plastic encapsulated packages. These plastic packages complement the existing EPI-Cavity product line based upon hermetic metal packages, and provide reliable, high output power in a small emitting area. The lasers are suitable for integrating into a variety of high volume range finding applications, laser-based speed enforcement, automotive blind spot detection, and adaptive cruise control.  

    •    IR-BLOC™ Ambient Light Sensor, offering a phototransistor-based light response adapted to that of the human eye, with an IR-blocking feature fully incorporated in a plastic epoxy package. Applications include street light switching, interior and exterior light control, and automotive headlight dimming.  

   •    TPS 23x Thermopile Sensor Family for low-cost temperature measurement applications, such as in ear or body thermometers. These feature the newest miniature thermopile chips and are available in a range of housing sizes.  

   •    Single Photon Counting Modules (“SPCM”) for molecular diagnostics applications, including the SPCM-AQRH series of photon-counting modules, which detect single photons of light over the 400-1060 nanometer wavelength range.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Brand Names. Our Optoelectronics business offers its products under various brand names, including Cermax®, VQ™, Heimann™, Reticon®, SmartBlue™, MultiBlue™, DigiPyro®, ACULED®, Trim Xe™, AesthetiPak™, VIGI-Lux™, Power Systems, and Amorphous Silicon.  

Marketing  

All of our businesses market their products and services directly through their own specialized sales forces. As of December 30, 2007, we employed approximately 2,800 sales and service representatives operating in approximately 35 countries, and marketing products and services in more than 150 countries. In addition, in geographic regions where we do not have a sales and service presence, we utilize distributors to sell our products.  

Raw Materials and Supplies   

Each of our businesses uses a wide variety of raw materials and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply and in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources. We generally have multi-year contracts, with no minimum purchase requirements, with certain suppliers. For certain critical raw materials and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products, we have qualified only a limited or a single source of supply. We periodically purchase quantities of some of these critical raw materials in excess of current requirements, in anticipation of future manufacturing needs. With sufficient lead times, we believe we would be able to qualify alternative suppliers for each of these raw materials. See further description in the applicable risk factor under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Intellectual Property  

We own numerous United States and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. We also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. In addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide   

10  

Table of Contents 

 array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the United States and abroad. We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. We do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments.  

In some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors’ patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. We are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of these matters.  

Backlog  

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business.  

Competition  

Due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. This affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. Our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments.  

In our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. Competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. We expect the proportion of large competitors in this reporting segment to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors.  

We do not believe any single competitor competes directly with our Optoelectronics segment across its full product range. However, we do compete with specialized manufacturing companies in the manufacturing and sale of specialty flashtubes and ultra specialty lighting sources, photo detectors and photodiodes, and switched power supplies. Competition is based on price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, and product reliability and quality.  

We believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition.  

Research and Development   

Research and development expenditures were approximately $113.1 million during fiscal 2007, approximately $99.7 million during fiscal 2006, and approximately $87.4 million during fiscal 2005. The fiscal year 2007 included an in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) charge of $1.5 million related to the Evotec and Euroscreen acquisitions.  

11  

Table of Contents 

We directed our research and development efforts in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily toward genetic screening, BioDiscovery, and analytical sciences markets within our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and medical imaging and photonics within our Optoelectronics segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. We expect our research and development spending to increase on an absolute basis and in line with our growth in sales during fiscal 2008, and to continue to emphasize these same markets.  

Environmental Matters  

Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These requirements include those governing emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees.  

We may have liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes.  

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $4.2 million as of December 30, 2007, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.  

In addition, we accrued $9.7 million during the second quarter of 2007 for a fire that occurred within our Life and Analytical Sciences facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005, representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters. We paid $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We anticipate that the remaining payments of $5.8 million will be completed by the end of fiscal year 2008.  

We may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs.  

Employees  

As of December 30, 2007, we employed approximately 8,700 employees. Several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers’ councils. As of December 30, 2007, we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers’ council employees. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information About Reporting Segments  

The assets and expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, accounting and finance, human resources, property and insurance management, information technology, treasury and other management and compliance costs, have been included as “Corporate” below. We have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. These amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments.  

The table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table.  

Additional information relating to our reporting segments for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 fiscal years is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

13  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas  

Both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the United States. During fiscal 2007, we had $1,127.8 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 63% of our total sales. During fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 76% of our international sales from our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and approximately 24% of our international sales from our Optoelectronics segment. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future.  

We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. Geographic information is discussed in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors