Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

Financial Instruments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. We believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of December 30, 2007.  

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. The contracts are primarily in European and Asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. Credit risk and market risk are insignificant as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. Unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. Principal hedged currencies include the British Pound (GBP), Canadian Dollar (CAD), Euro (EUR), Japanese Yen (JPY), and Singapore Dollar (SGD). We held forward foreign exchange contracts with U.S. equivalent notional amounts totaling $105.2 million at December 30, 2007 and $174.8 million as of December 31, 2006, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. The gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. The duration of these contracts entered into in 2007 was generally 30 days.  

54  

Table of Contents 

In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into forward interest rate contracts, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million, a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, and a future dated settlement to coincide with our highly probable debt issuance in 2008. These contracts are intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our highly probable debt issuance in 2008. We had accumulated net derivative losses of $5.3 million, net of taxes, in other comprehensive income as of December 30, 2007, related to these cash flow hedges. The net derivative losses will be reclassified into net earnings when the hedged exposure affects net earnings. No cash flow hedges were discontinued and no ineffectiveness was recognized during 2007.  

We do not enter into derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments.  

Market Risk  

Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures.  

Foreign Exchange Risk. The potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 63% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. Our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. The intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. Moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the United States, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the United States, resulting in a natural hedge.  

Although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted.  

Foreign Currency Risk—Value-at-Risk Disclosure. We utilize a Value-at-Risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. As discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. Our Value-at-Risk computation is based on the Monte Carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. As of December 30, 2007, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. This Value-At-Risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. Specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal 2007, the Value-At-Risk ranged between zero and $0.2 million, with an average of approximately $0.1 million.  

Interest Rate Risk. As described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. Fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Risk—Sensitivity. As of December 30, 2007, our debt portfolio consisted of $516.0 million of variable rate debt. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $203.3 million at December 30, 2007. Our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows:  

(1) Changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $516.0 million of revolving and interim debt facilities, to fluctuate. An increase of 10%, or approximately 55 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2008.  

(2) Changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. As described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 55 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $2.8 million for fiscal year 2008.  

(3) Changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest received to fluctuate.  

56  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data