PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Overview  

Wynn Resorts, Limited, a Nevada corporation, was formed in June 2002, is led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen A. Wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. Wynn Resorts, Limited currently owns 72.3% of Wynn Macau, Limited which operates a casino hotel resort property in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (“Macau”). In Las Vegas, Nevada, we own and operate Wynn Las Vegas, which includes Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. We present our results based on the following two segments: Macau Operations and Las Vegas Operations. For more information on the financial results for our segments, see Item 8—“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, Note 17 “Segment Information.”  

Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “Wynn Resorts,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our,” or similar terms, refer to Wynn Resorts, Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC’s internet site address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com, Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. The information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC.  

Our Resorts  

Macau Operations  

Wynn Macau opened on September 6, 2006. On April 21, 2010, we opened Encore at Wynn Macau, an expansion of Wynn Macau. We refer to the fully integrated Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau resort as “Wynn Macau | Encore” or as our “Macau Operations.” We believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service.  

Our Macau Operations feature 1,008 spacious guest rooms and suites, 493 table games, 866 slot machines and a poker pit in approximately 280,000 square feet of casino gaming space (including sky casinos and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in eight restaurants, two spas and a salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 57,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from Bvlgari, Cartier, Chanel, Dior, Dunhill, Ermenegildo Zegna, Ferrari, Giorgio Armani, Graff, Gucci, Hermes, Hugo Boss, Jaeger-LeCoultre, Loro Piana, Louis Vuitton, Miu Miu, Piaget, Prada, Roger Dubuis, Rolex, Tiffany, Tudor, Vacheron Constantin, Van Cleef & Arpels, Versace, Vertu, and others. Our Macau Operations include a show in the rotunda featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold “prosperity tree” and “dragon of fortune” attractions.  

Las Vegas Operations  

Wynn Las Vegas opened on April 28, 2005. On December 22, 2008, we opened Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, an expansion of Wynn Las Vegas. We refer to the fully integrated Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas resort as “Wynn Las Vegas | Encore” or as our “Las Vegas Operations.” We believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Our Las Vegas Operations feature 4,748 hotel rooms and suites, 230 table games, 1,854 slot machines, a race and sports book and a poker room in approximately 186,000 square feet of casino gaming space (including a sky casino and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in 34 food and beverage outlets, two spas and salons, lounges, and approximately 96,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from Alexander McQueen, Brioni, Cartier, Chanel, Chloé, Chopard, Dior, Graff, Hermes, IWC Schaffhausen, Jaeger-LeCoultre, Loro Piana, Louis Vuitton, Manolo Blahnik, Nicholas Kirkwood, Oscar de la Renta, Piaget, Rolex, Vertu and others. Our Las Vegas Operations also offer three nightclubs, a beach club, a Ferrari and Maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 284,000 square feet of meeting space, a specially designed theater presenting “Le Rêve-The Dream,” a water-based theatrical production, and the Encore Theater presenting various headliner entertainment acts throughout the year.  

See Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” for more information.  

Construction and Development Opportunities  

In the ordinary course of our business, and as a market leader and innovator, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our resort complexes.  

In September 2011, Palo Real Estate Company Limited (“Palo”) and Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Macau”), each an indirect subsidiary of Wynn Macau, Limited, formally accepted the terms and conditions of a draft land concession contract from the Macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the Cotai area of Macau. On May 2, 2012, the land concession contract was gazetted by the government of Macau evidencing the final step in the granting of the land concession.  

The initial term of the land concession contract is 25 years from May 2, 2012, and it may be renewed with government approval for successive periods. The total land premium payable, including interest as required by the land concession contract, is $193.4 million. An initial payment of $62.5 million was paid in December 2011, with eight additional semi-annual payments of approximately $16.4 million each (including interest at 5%) which began in November 2012. As of December 31, 2013, the Company has recorded this obligation and related asset with $29.3 million included as a current liability and $46.8 million included as a long-term liability. The Company will also be required to make annual lease payments of $0.8 million during the resort construction period and annual lease payments of approximately $1.1 million once the development is completed.  

On the land subject to the land concession discussed above, we are currently constructing Wynn Palace, a full-scale integrated resort containing a 1,700-room hotel, performance lake, meeting space, casino, spa, retail offerings and food and beverage outlets. The total project budget, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4 billion. As of December 31, 2013, we have invested $703.7 million in the project. We continue to remain on schedule for an opening in the first half of 2016.  

On July 29, 2013, Wynn Macau and Palo executed a guaranteed maximum price construction (“GMP”) contract with Leighton Contractors (Asia) Limited, acting as the general contractor. Under the GMP contract, the general contractor is responsible for both the construction and design of the project. The general contractor is obligated to substantially complete the project in the first half of 2016 for a guaranteed maximum price of HK$20 billion (approximately $2.57 billion). An early completion bonus for achievement of substantial completion on or before January 25, 2016, will be paid to the general contractor if certain conditions are satisfied under the GMP contract. Both the contract time and guaranteed maximum price are subject to further adjustment under certain specified conditions. The performance of the general contractor is backed by a full completion guarantee given by Leighton Holdings Limited, the parent company of the general contractor, as well as a performance bond for 5% of the guaranteed maximum price.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Our Strategy  

We believe that Steve Wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. Mr. Wynn’s involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. We integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including convention facilities, entertainment, fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to our international customer base.  

Our resorts are designed, built and operated to provide a premium experience for our guests. Our business is dependent upon repeat visitation from our guests and we believe superior customer experience and service is the best marketing strategy to attract and retain our customers. Our company heavily emphasizes human resources and staff training to ensure our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. We market our resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. Our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. We also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including social media, television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards.  

Mr. Wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. The senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. We also have an approximately 125-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines.  

For the sixth consecutive year, Wynn Macau and The Spa at Wynn Macau received the Forbes five-star distinction, while Encore at Wynn Macau and the Spa at Encore at Wynn Macau received the Forbes five-star distinction for the second consecutive year. For the eighth consecutive year, The Tower Suites at Wynn Las Vegas has received the Forbes five-star distinction. The Spa at Wynn Las Vegas earned five-star recognition from Forbes for the sixth year in a row. The Tower Suites at Encore and the Spa at Encore are also recipients of the Forbes five-star distinction. In addition, a number of restaurants in our resorts have earned star-distinction from Forbes, with 38 stars in total for the current year.  

We continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the United States, and worldwide. On November 11, 2013, we announced that our Board had elected to withdraw the previously filed application for a gaming license in Pennsylvania. We have made an application for a gaming license in Massachusetts. The process is competitive and we do not expect to know the outcome until the end of the first half of 2014. Proceeding with this project will require significant expenditure of Company funds. In addition, we are exploring expansion opportunities in other international jurisdictions.  

Market and Competition  

The casino resort industry is highly competitive. Both our Macau Operations and our Las Vegas Operations compete with other high-quality casino resorts. Resorts located on or near our properties compete on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. We seek to differentiate our Macau and Las Vegas resorts from other major resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of superior design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury.  

Macau  

Macau is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, Hong Kong. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China, with two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, between which the Cotai area is located. In 2002, the government of Macau ended a  

5  

Table of Contents 

 40 year monopoly of the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process resulting in the issuance of concessions to conduct gaming operations to three concessionaires (including Wynn Macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of Macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires. In addition to Wynn Macau, each of Sociedade de Jogos de Macau (“SJM”) and Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited are primary concessionaires and Sands China Ltd., Melco Crown and MGM China Holdings Limited operate under subconcessions. There is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. Currently, there are 35 operating casinos in Macau.  

We believe that Macau is located in one of the world’s largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, casinos in Macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $45.2 billion in gaming revenue in 2013, an 18.6% increase over the approximately $38.1 billion generated in 2012, and a significant increase over the approximately $2.9 billion generated in 2002.  

Macau’s gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. Tourist arrivals in 2013 were 29.3 million, compared to 28.1 million in 2012. The Macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last several years. As of December 31, 2013, there were 27,764 hotel rooms, 5,750 table games and 13,106 slot machines in Macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of December 31, 2006.  

Gaming customers traveling to Macau have typically come from nearby destinations in Asia including Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Malaysia. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited Macau in 2013 came from Hong Kong, mainland China and Taiwan. Travel to Macau by citizens of mainland China requires a visa. Chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future.  

Wynn Macau faces competition from casinos located throughout Asia, as well as other major gaming centers located around the world, including Singapore, Australia, Las Vegas and cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming.  

Las Vegas  

Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. During 2013, the economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in Las Vegas continued to improve with increased levels of gaming revenue and hotel room demand. While these gaming and hotel statistics have increased from prior year levels, uncertainty still exists in the Las Vegas market. During 2013, the average daily room rate increased 2.4%, visitation remained relatively flat at 39.7 million visitors, and Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues increased 4.8%, all as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. During 2012, the average daily room rate increased 2.8%, visitation increased 2.1% to 39.7 million visitors, and Las Vegas Strip gaming revenues increased 2.3%, all as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Our Las Vegas Operations are located on the Las Vegas Strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in Las Vegas. Our Las Vegas Operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts in Nevada and throughout the United States, and elsewhere in the world. The legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. New or renovated casinos in Asia, including Singapore, the Philippines, South Korea and Macau, could draw gaming customers away from Las Vegas.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Geographic Data  

Geographic data are reported in Item 8—“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, Note 17 “Segment Information.” Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.  

Regulation and Licensing  

Macau  

General. As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau, an indirect 72.3% owned subsidiary of the Company, is subject to the regulatory control of the Government of Macau. The government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the Macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire.  

Under the Law and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire’s equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval.  

Each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire’s casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government.  

Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. The withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time.  

A games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. Macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the Macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. For a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. Applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. The term of a games promoters’ license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. Natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. The Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (“DICJ”) implemented certain instructions in 2009,  

7  

Table of Contents 

 which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to, and by, games promoters. Such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters.  

Under Macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. These contractors are subject to approval of the Macau government. Changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the Macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. To conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the Macau government.  

Macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires’ casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. The Macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. Concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity.  

The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. The government of Macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. The government of Macau may also terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract.  

Concession Agreement. The concession agreement between Wynn Macau and the Macau government required Wynn Macau to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in Macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of December 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion Macau patacas (approximately $500 million) in Macau-related projects by June 2009. These obligations were satisfied upon the opening of Wynn Macau in 2006.  

Wynn Macau was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million Macau pataca (approximately $87 million) bank guarantee from Banco National Ultramarino, S.A. (“BNU”) that was effective until March 31, 2007. The amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million Macau patacas (approximately $37 million) for the period from April 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. This guarantee, which is for the benefit of the Macau government, assures Wynn Macau’s performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. Wynn Macau is obligated, upon demand by BNU, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the Macau government. BNU is currently paid an annual fee by Wynn Macau for the guarantee of approximately 5.2 million patacas (approximately $0.7 million).  

The government of Macau may redeem the concession beginning on June 24, 2017, and in such event Wynn Macau will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession.  

The government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if Wynn Macau fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau:  

   •    conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;  

   •    abandons or suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;  

8  

Table of Contents 

   •    defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;  

   •    does not comply with government inspections or supervision;  

   •    systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;  

   •    fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;  

   •    is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;  

   •    engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or,  

   •    repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws.  

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, Wynn Macau will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. In addition, the government of Macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case Wynn Macau would be entitled to reasonable compensation.  

Nevada  

Introduction. The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations made under the Act, as well as to various local ordinances. Our Las Vegas Operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which we refer to herein collectively as the “Nevada Gaming Authorities.”  

Policy Concerns of Gaming Laws. The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. Such public policy concerns include, among other things:  

   •    preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity;  

   •    establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures;  

   •    maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;  

   •    preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and  

   •    providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees.  

Changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our Las Vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations.  

Owner and Operator Licensing Requirements. Our subsidiary, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the owner and operator of our Las Vegas Operations, has been approved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. These gaming licenses are not transferable.  

Company Registration Requirements. Wynn Resorts was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC (“Wynn Resorts Holdings”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the Nevada Gaming Control Act. Wynn Resorts Holdings was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn  

9  

Table of Contents 

 Las Vegas, LLC and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as an intermediary company. In addition to being licensed, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, as an issuer of debt securities registered with the SEC, also qualified as a registered company. Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., a co-issuer of the debt securities, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source.  

Periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Commission and provide any other information that the Nevada Gaming Commission may require. Substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the Nevada Gaming Commission.  

Individual Licensing Requirements. No person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. All applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. However, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.  

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.  

Redemption of Securities Owned By an Unsuitable Person. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the Board of Directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the Company’s or any affiliate’s application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of Wynn Resorts’ capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by Wynn Resorts. The redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the Board of Directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. If Wynn Resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. If the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. Wynn Resorts’ right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable Gaming Authority and, if not, as the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts elects, and as set forth in the Company’s articles of incorporation.  

On February 18, 2012, Wynn Resorts’ Gaming Compliance Committee concluded an investigation after receiving an independent report by Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan, LLP (the “Freeh Report”) detailing a pattern of  

10  

Table of Contents 

 misconduct by Aruze USA, Inc. (at the time a stockholder of Wynn Resorts), Universal Entertainment Corporation, Aruze USA, Inc.’s parent company, and Kazuo Okada, (the majority shareholder of Universal Entertainment Corporation and a former member of the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts and Wynn Macau, Limited) (collectively, the “Okada Parties”).  

Based on the Freeh Report, the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts determined that the Okada Parties are “unsuitable persons” under Article VII of the Company’s articles of incorporation. The Board of Directors was unanimous (other than Mr. Okada) in its determination. After authorizing the redemption of the Aruze shares, the Board of Directors took certain actions to protect the Company and its operations from any influence of an unsuitable person, including placing limitations on the provision of certain operating information to unsuitable persons and formation of an Executive Committee of the Board to manage the business and affairs of the Company during the period between each annual meeting. The Charter of the Executive Committee provides that “Unsuitable Persons” are not permitted to serve on the Committee. All members of the Board, other than Mr. Okada, were appointed to the Executive Committee on February 18, 2012. The Board of Directors also requested that Mr. Okada resign as a director of Wynn Resorts (under Nevada corporation law, a board of directors does not have the power to remove a director) and recommended that Mr. Okada be removed as a member of the Board of Directors of Wynn Macau, Limited. In addition, on February 18, 2012, Mr. Okada was removed from the Board of Directors of Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts. On February 24, 2012, Mr. Okada was removed from the Board of Directors of Wynn Macau, Limited and on February 22, 2013, he was removed from the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts by a stockholder vote in which 99.6% of the over 86 million shares voted were cast in favor of removal. Additionally, Mr. Okada resigned from the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts on February 21, 2013. Although the Company has retained the structure of the Executive Committee, the Board has resumed its past role in managing the business and affairs of the Company.  

Based on the Board of Directors’ finding of “unsuitability,” on February 18, 2012, Wynn Resorts redeemed and cancelled Aruze USA, Inc.’s 24,549,222 shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock. The Company engaged an independent financial advisor to assist in the fair value calculation and concluded that a discount to the then current trading price was appropriate because of, among other things, restrictions on most of the shares held by Aruze USA, Inc. under the terms of the Stockholders Agreement (as defined below). Pursuant to its articles of incorporation, Wynn Resorts issued the Redemption Price Promissory Note (the “Redemption Note”) to Aruze USA, Inc. in redemption of the shares. The Redemption Note has a principal amount of $1.94 billion, matures on February 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum, payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of the Redemption Note. The Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under the Redemption Note. In no instance shall any payment obligation under the Redemption Note be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of Wynn Resorts or as specifically mandated by law. The indebtedness evidenced by the Redemption Note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Redemption Note, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of Wynn Resorts or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature.  

The Okada Parties have challenged the redemption of Aruze USA, Inc.’s shares and the Company is currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. See Item 1A—“Risk Factors”, Item 3—“Legal Proceedings” and Item 8—“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies”. The outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. The Company’s claims and the Okada Parties’ counterclaims are in a preliminary stage and management has determined that based on proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome of this matter or the range of reasonably possible loss, if any. An adverse judgment or settlement involving payment of a material amount could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Consequences of Violating Gaming Laws. If the Nevada Gaming Commission determines that we have violated the Nevada Gaming Control Act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Gaming Control Act, or of the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission, at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Further, the Nevada Gaming Commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our Las Vegas Operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations.  

Requirements for Voting or Nonvoting Securities Holders. Regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of Wynn Resorts’ voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person’s suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of Wynn Resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any investigation.  

The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company’s voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. However, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada Gaming Control Act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company’s voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. Further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company’s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company’s voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Gaming Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company’s voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include:  

   •    voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders;  

   •    making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and,  

   •    other activities that the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent.  

The articles of incorporation of Wynn Resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions.  

Wynn Resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record  

12  

Table of Contents 

 holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of Wynn Resorts’ voting securities. The Nevada Gaming Commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act. The certificates representing shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws.  

Consequences of Being Found Unsuitable. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission or by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we:  

   •    pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities;  

   •    allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to Wynn Resorts;  

   •    pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or,  

   •    fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value.  

Gaming Laws Relating to Debt Securities Ownership. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Gaming Commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission, it:  

   •    pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever;  

   •    recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities;  

   •    pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or,  

   •    makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction.  

Approval of Public Offerings. We may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. On March 21, 2013, the Nevada Gaming Commission granted us and Wynn Las Vegas, LLC prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of three years (the “Shelf Approval”). The Shelf Approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop  

13  

Table of Contents 

 order by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board. The Shelf Approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the Nevada Gaming Authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.  

Approval of Changes in Control. A registered company must obtain the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company.  

Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. The Nevada Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.  

Approval of Defensive Tactics. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of Nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy in order to:  

   •    assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies;  

   •    preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and,  

   •    promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.  

Approvals may be required from the Nevada Gaming Commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Gaming Control Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company’s Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control.  

Fees and Taxes. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries’ respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:  

   •    a percentage of the gross revenue received;  

   •    the number of gaming devices operated; or,  

   •    the number of table games operated.  

A live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished.  

Foreign Gaming Investigations. Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in Nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board of the licensee’s or registrant’s participation in such foreign gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming  

14  

Table of Contents 

 Commission. Licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if it:  

   •    knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;  

   •    fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;  

   •    engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;  

   •    engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or,  

   •    employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability.  

Licenses for Conduct of Gaming and Sale of Alcoholic Beverages. The conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at Wynn Las Vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which has granted Wynn Las Vegas, LLC licenses for such purposes. In addition to approving Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. Clark County gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. The County has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. Any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations.  

Other Regulations  

In addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results.  

Seasonality  

We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2013, we had a total of approximately 16,500 full-time equivalent employees (including approximately 7,000 in Macau and 9,500 in Las Vegas).  

We entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the Culinary and Bartenders Union local covering approximately 5,575 employees at our Las Vegas Operations that will expire in 2015. We also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the Transportation Workers Union in November 2010, which covers the table games dealers at Wynn Las Vegas. Certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our Las Vegas Operations.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Intellectual Property  

Among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name “WYNN.” Wynn Resorts has registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) a variety of the WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN RESORTS,” “WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT,” “WYNN LAS VEGAS,” “ENCORE” and “WYNN MACAU.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks.  

A common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname “WYNN.” As a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” Wynn Resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name based upon factors including Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer.  

Federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.  

We have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in Macau, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include many of the same marks filed with the United States PTO and include “WYNN MACAU,” “WYNN LAS VEGAS,” “WYNN PALACE” and “ENCORE.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks.  

We recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of “WYNN,” are among our most valuable assets. As a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the United States, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. We have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world.  

On August 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with Mr. Wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the “Wynn” name and Mr. Wynn’s persona in connection with our casino resorts. Under a Surname Rights Agreement, Mr. Wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the “Wynn” name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. Under a Rights of Publicity License, Mr. Wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until October 24, 2017.  

We have also registered various domain names including, but not limited to, www.wynnlasvegas.com, www.wynnmacau.com, www.wynnmacaulimited.com, www.encorelasvegas.com and www.wynnresorts.com, with various domain registrars around the world. Our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as “.com.cn” and “.com.hk.” We pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. The information found on these websites is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements  

16  

Table of Contents 

 include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.  

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in Item 1A—“Risk Factors” and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC, such as:  

   •    our dependence on Stephen A. Wynn and existing management;  

   •    regulatory or enforcement actions and probity investigations;  

   •    potential violations of law by Mr. Kazuo Okada, a former shareholder of ours;  

   •    changes in the valuation of the promissory note we issued in connection with the redemption of Mr. Okada’s shares;  

   •    any violations by us of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or federal anti-money laundering laws;  

   •    pending or future legal proceedings;  

   •    decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending;  

   •    fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates;  

   •    competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors;  

   •    uncertainties over the development and success of new gaming and resort properties;  

   •    new development and construction activities of competitors;  

   •    our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow;  

   •    adverse tourism and trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions;  

   •    general global macroeconomic conditions;  

   •    doing business in foreign locations such as Macau;  

   •    changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions);  

   •    the effect of environmental regulation on management and construction of projects;  

   •    our current and future insurance coverage levels;  

   •    our subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends and distributions;  

   •    our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;  

   •    our relationships with Macau games promoters;  

   •    our ability to maintain our customer relationships and collect and enforce gaming debts;  

   •    the maintenance of our concession from the Macau government;  

   •    changes in exchange rates;  

   •    cybersecurity risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security;  

   •    changes in U.S. laws regarding healthcare;  

   •    changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws;  

17  

Table of Contents 

   •    approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations);  

   •    volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets and from governmental intervention in the financial markets;  

   •    conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities;  

   •    continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements;  

   •    leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates);  

   •    restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland China to Macau;  

   •    the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of extreme weather patterns or a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; and  

   •    the consequences of military conflicts and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks.  

Further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS