ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary source of market risk is the difference between the prices we sell our refined products for and the prices we pay for crude oil and other feedstocks. We use derivative instruments to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil and refined products, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or to capture market opportunities. 

Commodity Price Risks

Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin, relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks), at which we are able to sell our refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially in recent years and depend on many factors. These factors include the global supply and demand for crude oil and refined products. This demand is impacted by changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we sell our refined products for are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.

Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. In most cases, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices will impact profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our rolling 12-month average throughput of 585 thousand barrels per day (“Mbpd”), would change annualized pre-tax operating income by approximately $214 million.

We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 30 million barrels and 31 million barrels at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2012, was approximately $51 per barrel compared to market prices of approximately $108 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory to market.

We use non-trading derivative instruments to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products. We also use non-trading derivative instruments to manage price risks associated with inventories above or below our target levels. These derivative instruments typically involve options, exchange-traded futures, over-the-counter swaps and options, and physical commodity forward purchase and sale contracts (“Forward Contracts”), with durations of less than two years. Our hedging strategies are monitored daily.

We mark-to-market our derivative instruments and recognize the changes in their fair value in our statements of consolidated operations. We elected not to designate derivative instruments as fair value hedges during 2012 and 2011, with the exception of a portion of our Tesoro Panama Company S.A. (“TPSA”) inventory designated as a fair value hedge in 2011.

Net earnings during the 2012 and 2011 included net losses of $28 million and $6 million, respectively, on our commodity derivative positions comprised of the following (dollars in millions and volumes in millions of barrels): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

67

Our open positions at December 31, 2012, will expire at various times primarily during 2013 and 2014. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. This analysis may differ from actual results. Based on our open net positions of 2 million barrels at December 31, 2012, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, could change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pre-tax operating income by approximately $2 million. 

Risk Management

We have established a risk committee comprised of senior level business management leadership from our financial, strategic, governance, administrative and operational functions. The risk committee’s responsibilities include the performance of an annual review to assess and prioritize the Company’s risks. Our financial, strategic, governance and operational risks’ subject matter experts participate in this annual assessment. The risk committee and other groups in the organization assess the status and effectiveness of risk prevention and mitigation activities, identify emerging risks, and facilitate management’s development of our risk assessment and management practices. In addition, the risk committee meets monthly to review priority risks, risk prevention and mitigation activities, and the Company’s emerging risks. The risk committee presents a quarterly risk update to executive management. At least annually, the Board of Directors meets with the chair of our risk committee concerning the status and effectiveness of our risk prevention and mitigation activities, emerging risks and risk assessment and management practices.

The risk committee has a responsibility to oversee the system of controls the Company has put in place to ensure procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. The Company has put in place controls designed to:

•create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy;

•provide for authorization by the appropriate levels of management;

•provide for segregation of duties;

•maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and

•have key performance indicators in place to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities.

We believe the governance structure that we have in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of our hedging program.

Counterparty Credit Risk

We have exposure to concentrations of credit risk related to the ability of our counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations, and the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. We have risk management policies in place, and continue to monitor closely the status of our counterparties. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, and in certain circumstances, require prepayments, letters of credit or other collateral.

Foreign Currency Risk

We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations on our purchases of Canadian crude oil. We enter into Forward Contracts of Canadian dollars to manage monthly exchange rate fluctuations. We had no gains or losses on these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2012 and a $6 million loss related to these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, we had Forward Contracts to purchase CAD $42 million and CAD $37 million that matured or will mature on January 25, 2013 and February 25, 2013, respectively. Based on our open forward contract position, a $0.01 change in the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rate would change operating income by less than $1 million.

Interest Rate Risk

We utilize fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and other borrowings, which are subject to market risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the interest expense we incur on our variable-rate debt, and the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. These changes also affect the rates used to discount liabilities, which could result in changes in our accretion expense related to asset retirement obligations and pension and postretirement net periodic benefit expense over time. The fair value of our debt was estimated primarily using quoted market prices. The carrying value and fair value of our debt was approximately $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. We currently do not use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, however we continue to monitor the market and our exposure, and in the future, we may enter into these transactions to mitigate risk. We believe in the short-term we have acceptable interest rate risk and continue to monitor the risk on our long-term obligations.

68

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA