PART I    

 ITEM 1. Business   

 Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “SYSCO,” or “the company” as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.  

 Overview  

 Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or “food-prepared-away-from-home” industry. We provide products and related services to over 400,000 customers, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers.  

 Founded in 1969, SYSCO commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for SYSCO common stock. Since our formation, we have grown from $115 million to over $37 billion in annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions. Through the end of fiscal 2008, we have acquired 145 companies or divisions of companies.  

 SYSCO Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware. The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by SYSCO pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on SYSCO’s website at www.sysco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 Operating Segments  

 SYSCO provides food and related products to the foodservice or “food-prepared-away-from-home” industry. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information” (SFAS 131), we have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in SFAS 131. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both our traditional and chain restaurant customers. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations. “Other” financial information is attributable to our other segments, including our specialty produce, custom-cut meat and lodging industry products segments and a company that distributes to international customers. Specialty produce companies distribute fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice products. Specialty meat companies distribute custom-cut fresh steaks, other meat, seafood and poultry. Our lodging industry products company distributes personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies, room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry. Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments as well as financial information concerning geographic areas can be found in Note 19, Business Segment Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

 Customers and Products  

 The foodservice industry consists of two major customer types — “traditional” and “chain restaurant.” Traditional foodservice customers include restaurants, hospitals, schools, hotels and industrial caterers. Our chain restaurant customers include regional and national hamburger, sandwich, pizza, chicken, steak, ethnic and other chain operations.  

 Services to our traditional foodservice and chain restaurant customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.  

 The products we distribute include:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1  
 A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Sales are less than 1% of total   

 Our operating companies distribute nationally-branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands. Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for SYSCO according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements.  

 We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, close contact with customers and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of products to traditional customers. Our operating companies offer daily delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice. Through our more than 14,000 sales and marketing representatives and support staff of SYSCO and our operating companies, we stay informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services. Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third party services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.  

 No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total sales for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008.  

 Our sales to chain restaurant customers consist of a variety of food products. We believe that consistent product quality and timely and accurate service are important factors when a chain restaurant selects a foodservice supplier. One chain restaurant customer (Wendy’s International, Inc.) accounted for 5% of our sales for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008. Although this customer represents approximately 34% of the SYGMA segment sales, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYSCO as a whole.  

 Based upon available information, we estimate that sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Sources of Supply  

 We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and international, none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases. These suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers. Generally, purchasing is carried out through centrally developed purchasing programs and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies. We continually develop relationships with our suppliers.  

 SYSCO’s Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative, Inc. (BSCC) administers a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. The program covers the purchasing and marketing of SYSCO Brand merchandise as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines. SYSCO’s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in the cooperative’s programs and from other suppliers, although SYSCO Brand products are only available to the operating companies through the cooperative’s programs.  

 SYSCO’s National Supply Chain group is focused on increasing profitability by lowering aggregate inventory levels, operating costs, and future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers.  

 The National Supply Chain group has three major supply chain initiatives. The first initiative involves the construction and operation of regional distribution centers which aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain activities for certain products for all SYSCO broadline operating companies in the region. We currently expect to build five to seven redistribution centers (RDCs). The first of these centers, the Northeast RDC located in Front Royal, Virginia, has been operational since the third quarter of fiscal 2005. A second RDC located in Alachua, Florida became operational in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, we intend to service additional broadline companies from our existing RDCs. The  

 2  
 second initiative is the national transportation management initiative, which provides the capability to view and manage all of SYSCO’s inbound freight, both to RDCs and the operating companies, as a network and not as individual locations. This allows us to better consolidate inbound freight. Fiscal 2008 was the first full year we operated under this initiative, and we will continue to refine our execution in the future. The third initiative is the national implementation of demand planning and inventory management software. This initiative is strategically important in that it creates the foundation to effectively execute new supply chain processes, including redistribution, as well as efficiently manage our inventory assets. In fiscal 2008, we continued to improve this software and implemented it at additional broadline companies.  

 Working Capital Practices  

 Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings. See the discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations at Item 7 regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.  

 Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of the customers’ credit risk. We monitor the customers’ accounts and will suspend shipments to customers if necessary.  

 A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when the customers’ orders are placed. We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand. The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand. We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities.  

 We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.  

 Corporate Headquarters’ Services  

 Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies. Members of the corporate staff possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and finance, treasury, cash management, information technology, employee benefits, engineering, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development, information technology and tax compliance services. The corporate office also makes available warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.  

 Capital Improvements  

 To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to construct and modernize our distribution facilities. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately $515,963,000, $603,242,000 and $513,934,000 respectively, were invested in facility expansions, fleet additions and other capital asset enhancements. The lower amount spent in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to delays on certain projects that will shift significant expenditures to fiscal 2009. As a result, we estimate our capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 should be in the range of $675,000,000 to $725,000,000. During the three years ended June 28, 2008, capital expenditures were financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank and other borrowings. We expect to finance our fiscal 2009 capital expenditures from the same sources.  

 Employees  

 As of June 28, 2008, we had approximately 50,000 full-time employees, approximately 17% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company. Approximately 21% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements which have expired or will expire during fiscal 2009. We consider our labor relations to be satisfactory.  

 Competition  

 SYSCO’s business environment is competitive with numerous companies engaged in foodservice distribution. Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from retail outlets. While competition is encountered primarily from local and regional distributors, a few companies compete with us on a national basis. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices. We estimate that we serve about 16% of an approximately $231 billion annual market that includes the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and the hotel amenity, furniture and textile markets in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. We believe, based upon industry trade data, that our sales to the United States and Canada “food-prepared-away-from-home” industry were the highest of any foodservice distributor during fiscal 2008. While adequate industry statistics are not available, we believe that in most instances our local operations are among the leading distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in their respective trading areas. We believe our competitive advantages include our diversified product base, the diversity in the types of customers we serve, our economies of scale and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada, which allows us to minimize the impact of regional economic declines. We are the only publicly-traded distributor in the “food-prepared-away-from-home” industry in the United States. While our public company status provides us with some advantages, including access to capital, we believe it also provides us with some disadvantages that our competitors do not have in terms of additional costs related to complying with regulatory requirements.  

 3  
 Government Regulation  

 As a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of statutes governing the manufacture, storage, transport, and sale of food products in the United States and Canada. The principal statutes are the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as the Canadian Food and Drugs Act and the regulations thereunder.  

 The FDA regulates manufacturing and holding requirements for foods through its manufacturing practice regulations, specifies the standards of identity for certain foods and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. For certain product lines, we are also subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, the Packers and Stockyard Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The USDA imposes standards for product quality and sanitation including the inspection and labeling of meat and poultry products and the grading and commercial acceptance of produce shipments from our suppliers. We are also subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, which governs food advertising and the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which establish certain registration, import notification and record keeping requirements on facilities that manufacture, process, pack or hold food for human or animal consumption.  

 In Canada, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency administers and enforces the food safety and nutritional quality standards established by Health Canada under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act and under other related federal legislation, including the Canada Agricultural Products Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the Fish Inspection Act and the Consumer Packaging and Labeling Act (as it relates to food). These laws regulate the processing, storing, grading, packaging, marking, transporting and inspection of certain SYSCO product lines as well as the packaging, labeling, sale, importation and advertising of pre-packaged and certain other products.  

 We and our products are also subject to state, provincial and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state, provincial and local health agencies of state, provincial and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to inspections by FDA and USDA, as well as inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor, together with similar occupational health and safety laws in each Canadian province. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute.  

 We are also subject to regulation by numerous U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Labor and each Canadian provincial ministry of labour, which set employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Canadian Transportation Agency, which regulate transportation of perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state, provincial and local agencies.  

 Most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks, as well as laws regulating the handling and release of these substances. Our facilities also have large areas of impermeable surface for parking and staging of vehicles and therefore are potentially subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations covering storm water run-off. Other U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of the environment or the discharge of materials do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.  

 Compliance with these laws has not had, and is not anticipated to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

 General  

 We have numerous trademarks which are of significant importance to the company. We believe that the loss of the SYSCO(R) trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

 We are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products.  

 Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal.  

 As of June 28, 2008, we operated 180 distribution facilities throughout the United States and Canada.  

 4   
 Item 1A. Risk Factors