Item 1A. Risk Factors   

 Increased Fuel Costs and Increased Inflation Have Increased our Costs and We May Not Be Able to Compensate for Such Increased Costs  

 Increased fuel costs have had a negative impact on our fiscal 2008 results of operations. The high cost of fuel has increased the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of our increased fuel costs to our customers, there is no guarantee that we can continue to do so. In addition, prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on such product cost increases. Our estimate for the inflation in SYSCO’s cost of goods was 6.0% in fiscal 2008, compared to 3.4% in fiscal 2007 and 0.6% in fiscal 2006. If fuel costs and product costs continue to increase, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.  

 Inflation, Rising Fuel Costs and Other Economic Conditions are Affecting Consumer Confidence, which is Currently Adversely Impacting our Business and We Currently Expect These Conditions to Continue into Fiscal 2009  

 The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. Inflation, increases in fuel costs and other general economic conditions have negatively affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending in fiscal 2008. This has led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home and can also result in reduction of sales volumes, competitive price pressures, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, increases in our product costs and increases in delivery costs. These conditions have, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by declining rate of sales growth from 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to 5.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and have also negatively impacted our operating results for fiscal 2008. These conditions are expected to continue to negatively impact our results for the foreseeable future.  

 Conditions Beyond our Control can Interrupt our Supplies and Increase our Product Costs  

 We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses in the United States and Canada). Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of our foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.  

 Taxing Authorities May Successfully Challenge our Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative Structure  

 The Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative (BSCC) administers a consolidated product procurement program to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. BSCC is a cooperative taxed under subchapter T of the United States Internal Revenue Code. We believe that the deferred tax liabilities resulting from the business operations and legal ownership of BSCC are appropriate under the tax laws. However, if the application of the tax laws to the cooperative structure of BSCC were to be successfully challenged by any federal, state or local tax authority, we could be required to accelerate the payment of all or a portion of our income tax liabilities associated with BSCC that we otherwise had deferred until future periods. In that event, we would be liable for interest on such amounts. As of June 28, 2008, we have recorded deferred income tax liabilities of $1,054,190,000 related to the BSCC supply chain distributions. This amount represents the income tax liabilities related to BSCC that were accrued, but the payment had been deferred as of June 28, 2008. In addition, if the IRS or any other taxing authority determines that all amounts since the inception of BSCC were inappropriately deferred or that BSCC should have been a taxable entity, we estimate that in addition to making a current payment for amounts previously deferred, as discussed above, we may have additional liability, representing interest that would be payable on the cumulative deferred balances ranging from $290,000,000 to $320,000,000, prior to federal and state income tax benefit, as of June 28, 2008. We calculated this amount based upon the amounts deferred since the inception of BSCC applying the applicable jurisdictions’ interest rates in effect each period. The IRS, in connection with its audit of our 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns, proposed adjustments related to the taxability of the cooperative structure. We are vigorously protesting these adjustments. We have reviewed the merits of the issues raised by the IRS and concluded the measurement model of FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” required us to provide an accrual for a portion of the interest exposure. If a taxing authority requires us to accelerate the payment of these deferred tax liabilities and to pay related interest, if any, we may be required to raise additional capital through debt financing or the issuance of equity or we may have to forego share repurchases or defer planned capital expenditures or a combination of these items.  

 We Need Access to Borrowed Funds in Order to Grow, but Our Leveraged Position Could Increase Our Vulnerability to Competitive Pressures  

 Because a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to continue this expansion. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds  

 5  
 could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. Further, our leveraged position may also increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures.  

 Product Liability Claims Could Materially Impact our Business  

 We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by SYSCO causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If SYSCO does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.  

 Adverse Publicity Could Negatively Impact our Reputation and Reduce Earnings  

 Maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business, particularly to selling SYSCO Brand products. Anything that damages that reputation, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to the use of SYSCO products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically.  

 Failure to Successfully Renegotiate Union Contracts Could Result in Work Stoppages  

 As of June 28, 2008, approximately 8,700 employees at 54 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2009, 14 agreements covering approximately 1,900 employees have expired or will expire. Failure of the operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.  

 A Shortage of Qualified Labor Could Negatively Impact our Business and Materially Reduce Earnings  

 Our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease SYSCO’s ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.  

 We may be Required to Pay Material Amounts Under Multi-Employer Defined Benefit Pension Plans  

 We contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 12% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. In fiscal 2008, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $35,040,000.  

 We do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that some of these multi-employer plans are underfunded due partially to a decline in the value of the assets supporting these plans, a reduction in the number of actively participating members for whom employer contributions are required, and the level of benefits provided by the plans. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, enacted in August 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. As a result, our required contributions to these plans may increase in the future.  

 Under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan’s termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we estimate that our share of withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans we participate in, some of which appear to be underfunded, could be as much as $140,000,000, of which only approximately $22,000,000 has been accrued as of June 28, 2008. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the IRS may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. Requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations.  

 6  
 Product Cost Deflation May also Adversely Impact Future Operations  

 Although we are currently experiencing a period of product cost inflation, our business may also be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation. We make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant.  

 We Must Finance and Integrate Acquired Businesses Wisely  

 Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited or no expertise, or with a culture different from SYSCO’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments.  

 Expanding into International Markets Presents Unique Challenges, and our Expansion Efforts and International Operations may not be Successful  

 In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes expansion of operations into new international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.  

 Our Preferred Stock Provides Anti-Takeover Benefits that may not be Beneficial to Stockholders  

 Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, SYSCO’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire SYSCO without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire SYSCO without approval of the Board of Directors of SYSCO, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of SYSCO, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.  

 Technology Dependence Could have a Material Negative Impact on our Business  

 Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to load trucks in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of storage space and minimize the time spent at each stop. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. While SYSCO has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.   

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

 None.  

 7  
  Item 2.    Properties