ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 

 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Forward-Looking Information 

The discussions under Business, Risk Factors, Properties and Legal Proceedings, and the following discussions under “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” contain various forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which represent the Company's expectations or beliefs concerning future events. When used in this document and in documents incorporated herein by reference, the words "expects," "plans," "anticipates," “indicates,” “believes,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “targets” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements that describe the Company’s objectives, plans or goals are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the Company’s expectations concerning operations and financial conditions, including changes in capacity, revenues, and costs; future financing plans and needs; the amounts of its unencumbered assets and other sources of liquidity; fleet plans; overall economic and industry conditions; plans and objectives for future operations; regulatory approvals and actions, including the Company’s application for ATI with other oneworld alliance members; and the impact on the Company of its results of operations in recent years and the sufficiency of its financial resources to absorb that impact. Other forward-looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as, without limitation, statements which discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Guidance given in this report regarding capacity, fuel consumption, fuel prices, fuel hedging, and unit costs, and statements regarding expectations of regulatory approval of the Company’s application for ATI with other oneworld members are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations. The Risk Factors listed in Item 1A, in addition to other possible factors not listed, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from historical results and from those expressed in forward-looking statements. 

Overview 

In late 2009, the Company unveiled a new business plan – FlightPlan 2020, which is an evolution of the Turnaround Plan that guided the Company through the last decade. FlightPlan 2020 is a strategic framework developed to secure the Company’s future by focusing on what will be required to succeed in the airline business over the next decade. It establishes the Company’s priorities and a clear path to better position the Company to meet the challenges of the coming years. This plan for achieving sustained profitability has five tenets: (i) Invest Wisely, (ii) Earn Customer Loyalty, (iii) Strengthen and Defend our Global Network, (iv) Be a Good Place for Good People and (v) Fly Profitably. All strategic actions by the Company going forward will be designed to realize the goals of FlightPlan 2020. 

Demand for air travel in 2009 was very weak, driven by the continuing severe downturn in the global economy. In reaction to the challenge, throughout the year the Company implemented strategic measures designed to help it manage through these near-term challenges while seeking to position itself for long-term success. 

In response to the rapidly deteriorating economy, in the first half of 2009, the Company announced additional capacity cuts, beyond its substantial 2008 capacity reductions, as it attempted to create a more sustainable supply-demand balance. The Company reduced consolidated seating capacity by approximately 7.3 percent for the full year 2009 versus 2008. The reduction consisted of an approximately 8.5 percent reduction in consolidated domestic capacity and approximately 5.1 percent reduction in consolidated international capacity compared to the year ending December 31, 2008. No assurance can be given that any capacity reductions or other steps the Company may take will be adequate to offset the effects of reduced demand. 

The Company continued to work to implement and maintain several other initiatives, including introducing plans to focus its network by reallocating capacity to primary markets in Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, New York and Los Angeles, initiating new plans to enhance its fleet to better serve customers, maintaining the range of service charges introduced in 2008 to generate additional revenue, executing its fleet renewal and replacement plan, implementing initiatives to improve dependability and on-time performance, and securing a total of $4.3 billion in cash through financing transactions in 2009, which substantially bolstered the Company’s liquidity position. In addition, the Company secured financing commitments covering all aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2010 and 2011. 

The Company continues to pursue the initiative to strengthen its global network through the application pending with DOT for global ATI with four members of the oneworld global alliance. In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, providing for commercial cooperation on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. In connection with the joint business agreement, American, British Airways and Iberia, along with Finnair and Royal Jordanian, applied to DOT for ATI for their planned cooperation, and in February of 2010, DOT tentatively granted the parties’ application for ATI subject to certain conditions, including requirements that American and British Airways lease a total of four takeoff and landing slots at London Heathrow (two slot pairs) to other carriers beginning in 2011, that specified provisions of the joint business agreement be amended, and that the carriers submit reports regarding progress towards the alliance’s stated goals and the realization of public benefits. DOT also established a procedure that allows any interested party to submit comments on its tentative findings within the next 45 days. American is reviewing the order granting tentative approval with the other applicant carriers, and expects to respond to DOT within the required 45 day comment period. A final decision on the application is expected after DOT’s review of responses received from American and other interested parties during the comment period. 

In September of 2009, the European Union (EU) issued a Statement of Objection (SO) related to the proposed joint business agreement. The SO asserts, among other things, that without remedies, the joint business agreement would infringe certain aspects of EU competition law. The carriers have responded to the SO and have sought to demonstrate the consumer benefits of the joint business agreement. The SO process is an anticipated part of the process of obtaining clearance from EU competition authorities. The parties have been in discussions and have offered a set of commitments, including offering to lease slots to competitors to serve certain routes, to address the EU's remaining competition concerns. 

Implementation of the joint business agreement and the related arrangements is subject to conditions, including final approval from DOT and clearance from EU competition authorities as referred to above, various other U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements, and other approvals. Following satisfaction of those conditions, American expects to begin implementing the joint business agreement in the second half of 2010. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits the Company may derive from such arrangements. 

In February 2010, American and JAL announced the decision to strengthen their relationship. The carriers, both members of the oneworld alliance, jointly applied to DOT for ATI on certain routes, and jointly notified the MLIT in Tokyo of the proposed cooperation. The Company believes this application will meet DOT’s pro-consumer and pro-competition criteria for granting ATI. As a part of the application, American and JAL entered into a joint business agreement which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia, through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. This, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products and quality service to their customers. The joint business agreement is subject to ATI approval and certain other conditions. 

As a part of these commercial benefits, American determined that with ATI and by participating in a joint business agreement with American, JAL could realize approximately $100 million in annual incremental revenue. American has given JAL a guarantee to that effect covering the first three years following implementation of the joint business agreement, subject to certain terms and conditions. The Company and other oneworld members have also discussed various possible financing arrangements with JAL. The Company has agreed to negotiate in good faith towards a capital investment in JAL by American, oneworld and a private investment firm in the future if invited by JAL and the Government of Japan. To date, the Government of Japan has declined any such investment, and the Company does not expect that any such investment will be made in the near term. Any such investment would be on and subject to terms and conditions customary to such an arrangement. The Company also expects that the amount of such a capital investment, if any, would not exceed $1.4 billion, with the contribution by American and other oneworld carriers not to exceed $300 million, and the remainder to be made by a private investment firm.  

Implementation of the JAL joint business agreement is subject to U.S. and foreign regulatory authorization, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements, and other approvals. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that the Company may derive from such arrangements. 

The Company recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009 compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2009 net loss is primarily attributable to a significant decrease in passenger revenue due to lower traffic and passenger yield. In 2009, the Company experienced very weak demand for air travel driven by the continuing severe downturn in the global economy. In addition, as a result of reduced demand, there has been substantial fare discounting across the industry, which has resulted in decreased passenger yield. Mainline passenger revenue decreased by $3.2 billion to $15.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008. Mainline passenger unit revenues decreased 11.1 percent in 2009 due to an 11.2 percent decrease in passenger yield compared to 2008 and partially offset by a load factor increase of approximately 0.1 points. Passenger yield remains low and well below the Company’s peak yield set in the year 2000, despite cumulative inflation of approximately 26 percent over the same time frame. The Company believes this is the result of a fragmented industry with numerous competitors and excess capacity, increased low cost carrier competition, increased price competition due to the internet, and other factors. Since deregulation in 1978, the Company’s passenger yield has increased 64 percent, while the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as measured by the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics, has grown by over 220 percent. The Company believes increases in passenger yield will continue to significantly lag CPI indefinitely. 

The decrease in total passenger revenue was partially offset by significantly lower year-over-year fuel prices; the Company paid an average of $2.01 per gallon in 2009 compared to an average of $3.03 per gallon in 2008, including effects of hedging. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. However, the Company’s unit costs excluding fuel and special charges were greater for the year ended December 31, 2009 than for the same period in 2008. Factors driving the increase include increased defined benefit pension expenses (due to the stock market decline in 2008), higher airport rent and landing fees and cost pressures associated with the Company’s capacity reductions announced in 2008 and 2009 and dependability initiatives. 

The 2009 operating results were also negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item. Special items of $184 million include the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions initiated in 2008, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. The restructuring charges, the non-cash tax item and the route impairment are described in Notes 2, 8 and 11, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Company’s ability to become profitable and its ability to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of factors, many of which are largely beyond the Company’s control. Certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business and financial results are discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A. In addition, most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have filed for bankruptcy in the last several years and have used this process to significantly reduce contractual labor and other costs. In order to remain competitive and to improve its financial condition, the Company must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce its costs. Although the Company has a number of initiatives underway to address its cost and revenue challenges, some of these initiatives involve changes to the Company’s business which it may be unable to implement. It has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether the Company’s initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond its control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. It will be very difficult for the Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis, and to return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not improve substantially or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash, Short-Term Investments and Restricted Assets At December 31, 2009, the Company had $4.4 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $460 million in Restricted cash and short-term investments, both at fair value, versus $3.1 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $459 million in Restricted cash and short-term investments in 2008. 

Significant Indebtedness and Future Financing Indebtedness is a significant risk to the Company as discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A. During 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, the Company raised an aggregate of approximately $6.9 billion in financing to fund operating losses, capital commitments (mainly for aircraft and ground properties), debt maturities, employee pension obligations and to bolster its liquidity. As of the date of this Form 10-K, the Company believes that it should have sufficient liquidity to fund its operations, including repayment of debt and capital leases, capital expenditures and other contractual obligations; however there can be no assurances to that effect. 

Despite the disruptions in the capital markets, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the Company raised approximately $4.3 billion in cash from the advance sale of AAdvantage miles, debt issuances, equity issuances and sale leasebacks. In addition, the Company secured financing commitments covering all aircraft scheduled to be delivered to the Company in 2010 and 2011. See full descriptions of these financings in Notes 4, 5, 6 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 

In 2010, the Company will be required to make approximately $1.0 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and approximately $90 million in principal payments on capital leases, and the Company expects to spend approximately $2.1 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments. In addition, the global economic downturn, rising fuel prices, the possibility of being required to post reserves under credit card processing agreements, and the obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts and fund pension plan contributions, among other things, may in the future negatively impact the Company’s liquidity. To maintain sufficient liquidity and because the Company has significant debt, lease and other obligations in the next several years, including commitments to purchase aircraft, as well as significant pension funding obligations (refer to Contractual Obligations in this Item 7), the Company will need access to substantial additional funding. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on the Company and on its ability to sustain its operations. 

The Company’s substantial indebtedness and other obligations have important consequences. For example, they: (i) limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding could be obtained; (ii) require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; (iii) make the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and (iv) limit the Company’s ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 

The Company’s possible remaining financing sources primarily include: (i) a very limited amount of additional secured aircraft debt or sale leaseback transactions involving owned aircraft; (ii) debt secured by other assets; (iii) securitization of future operating receipts; (iv) the sale or monetization of certain assets; (v) unsecured debt; and (vi) issuance of equity or equity-like securities. Besides unencumbered aircraft, the Company’s most likely sources of liquidity include the financing of route authorities, takeoff and landing slots, spare parts, and the sale or financing of certain of AMR’s business units and subsidiaries, such as AMR Eagle. The Company’s ability to obtain future financing is limited by the value of its unencumbered assets. Almost all of the Company’s aircraft assets (including aircraft eligible for the benefits of Section 1110 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code) are encumbered. Also, the market value of these aircraft assets has declined in recent years, and may continue to decline. The Company believes it has approximately $2 billion in assets that could be used as possible financing sources as of the date of this filing. However, many of these assets may be difficult to finance, and the availability and level of the financing sources described above cannot be assured. 

As of December 31, 2009, American had 45 Boeing 737-800 purchase commitments for 2010 and eight Boeing 737-800 purchase commitments in 2011. In addition to these aircraft, American has firm commitments for eleven Boeing 737-800 aircraft and seven Boeing 777 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2013-2016. AMR Eagle has firm commitments for 22 Bombardier CRJ-700 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2010 and 2011. Payments for the Company’s aircraft purchase commitments will approximate $1.6 billion in 2010, $526 million in 2011, $217 million in 2012, $465 million in 2013, $224 million for 2014, and $248 million for 2015 and beyond. These amounts are net of purchase deposits currently held by the manufacturers. 

As a result of recent financing transactions (refer to Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements), American does not expect to use its previously arranged backstop financing to finance any of its Boeing 737-800 aircraft deliveries scheduled for 2010 and 2011; however, such backstop financing arrangement remains in place. 

In 2008, the Company entered into a new purchase agreement with Boeing for the acquisition of 42 firm Boeing 787-9 aircraft and purchase rights to acquire up to 58 additional B787 aircraft. Per the purchase agreement, the first such aircraft was scheduled to be delivered in 2012, and the last firm aircraft was scheduled to be delivered in 2018 with deliveries of additional aircraft, if any, scheduled between 2015 and 2020. The Company and Boeing are currently discussing a revised delivery schedule due to the impact of the overall Boeing 787 program delay on American’s delivery positions. The revised delivery schedule is expected to include terms and conditions consistent with the original agreement and to allow the Company confirmation rights both similar to those described below. 

Under the current 787-9 purchase agreement, except as described below, American will not be obligated to purchase a 787-9 aircraft unless it gives Boeing notice confirming its election to do so at least 18 months prior to the scheduled delivery date for that aircraft. If American does not give that notice with respect to an aircraft, the aircraft no longer be subject to the 787-9 purchase agreement. These confirmation rights may be exercised until a specified date, May 1, 2013 under the current agreement, provided that those rights will terminate earlier if American reaches a collective bargaining agreement with its pilot union that includes provisions enabling American to utilize the 787-9 to American’s satisfaction in the operations desired by American, or if American confirms its election to purchase any of the initial 42 787-9 aircraft. While there can be no assurances, American expects that it will have reached an agreement as described above with its pilots union prior to the first notification date. In either of those events, American would become obligated to purchase all of the initial 42 aircraft then subject to the purchase agreement. If neither of those events occur prior to May 1, 2013 under the current agreement, then on that date American may elect to purchase all of the initial 42 aircraft then subject to the purchase agreement, and if it does not elect to do so, the purchase agreement will terminate in its entirety. 

Credit Ratings AMR’s and American’s credit ratings are significantly below investment grade. Additional reductions in AMR's or American's credit ratings could further increase its borrowing or other costs and further restrict the availability of future financing. 

Credit Card Processing and Other Reserves American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the related credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement). 

Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of American’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted. 

Cash Flow Activity The Company’s cash flow from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2009 generated $930 million which is an increase of $2.3 billion from the same period in 2008, primarily due to the decrease in average fuel prices in 2009 as compared to 2008. 

Capital expenditures during 2009 were $1.5 billion and primarily included new aircraft and aircraft modifications. 

The Company made debt and capital lease payments of $2.4 billion in 2009. Included in this amount, AMR retired, by purchasing with cash, the $318 million principal amount of its 4.50 percent senior convertible notes due 2024 (the 4.50 Notes). Virtually all of the holders of the 4.50 Notes exercised their elective put rights and the Company purchased and retired these notes at a price equal to 100 percent of their principal amount. Under the terms of the 4.50 Notes, the Company had the option to pay the purchase price with cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock, and the Company elected to pay for the 4.50 Notes solely with cash. Also included in total debt payments, the Company retired, at maturity, its $255 million secured bank revolving credit facility in June 2009 and retired its $432 million term loan credit facility in September 2009. 

In 2009, the Company obtained approximately $4.3 billion of cash from financing activities through the following: 

   $ 1.0 billion  Advance sale of AAdvantage Miles to Citibank (of which $110 million is recorded as deferred revenue and included in cash flow from operations) 

     $ 2.1 billion   Issuance of other debt instruments 

   $ 412 million  Issuance of equity instruments 

   $ 768 million  Sale leaseback financings 

See Notes 5, 6 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of these financing transactions. 

Due to the current value of the Company’s derivative contracts, some agreements with counterparties require collateral to be deposited by the Company. As of December 31, 2009, the cash collateral held by such counterparties from AMR was $14 million as compared to $575 million at December 31, 2008. 

In the past, the Company has from time to time refinanced, redeemed or repurchased its debt and taken other steps to reduce its debt or lease obligations or otherwise improve its balance sheet. Going forward, depending on market conditions, its cash positions and other considerations, the Company may continue to take such actions. 

CompensationOn January 19, 2010, the Company approved the 2010 Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) for American. All U.S. based employees of American are eligible to participate in the AIP. The AIP is American's annual bonus plan and provides for the payment of awards in the event certain financial and/or customer service metrics are satisfied.  

Working Capital AMR (principally American) historically operates with a working capital deficit, as do most other airline companies. In addition, the Company has historically relied heavily on external financing to fund capital expenditures. More recently, the Company has also relied on external financing to fund operating losses, employee pension obligations and debt maturities. 

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements American has determined that it holds a significant variable interest in, but is not the primary beneficiary of, certain trusts that are the lessors under 84 of its aircraft operating leases. These leases contain a fixed price purchase option, which allows American to purchase the aircraft at a predetermined price on a specified date. However, American does not guarantee the residual value of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2009, future lease payments required under these leases totaled $1.4 billion. 

Certain special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain municipalities primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities that are leased by American and accounted for as operating leases. Approximately $1.5 billion of these bonds (with total future payments of approximately $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2009) are guaranteed by American, AMR, or both. Approximately $177 million of these special facility revenue bonds contain mandatory tender provisions that require American to make operating lease payments sufficient to repurchase the bonds at various times: $112 million in 2014 and $65 million in 2015. Although American has the right to remarket the bonds, there can be no assurance that these bonds will be successfully remarketed. Any payments to redeem or purchase bonds that are not remarketed would generally reduce existing rent leveling accruals or be considered prepaid facility rentals and would reduce future operating lease commitments. 

In addition, the Company had other operating leases, primarily for aircraft and airport facilities, with total future lease payments of $4.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. Entering into aircraft leases allows the Company to obtain aircraft without immediate cash outflows. 

Contractual Obligations 

The following table summarizes the Company’s obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2009 (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1.   

Certain special facility revenue bonds issued by municipalities - which are supported by operating leases executed by American - are guaranteed by AMR and/or American. The special facility revenue bonds with mandatory tender provisions discussed above are included in this table based on lease payment terms rather than their mandatory tender provision date. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

  2.   As of December 31, 2009, the Company had firm commitments to acquire 45 Boeing 737-800s in 2010 and eight Boeing 737-800 aircraft in 2011. In addition to these aircraft, the Company has firm commitments for eleven Boeing 737-800 aircraft and seven Boeing 777 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2013 - 2016. AMR Eagle has firm commitments for 22 Bombardier CRJ-700 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2010 and 2011. Future payments for all aircraft, including the estimated amounts for price escalation, are currently estimated to be approximately $3.3 billion, with the majority occurring in 2010 through 2013. Additional information about the Company’s obligations is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

  3.   The table reflects minimum required payments under the capacity purchase agreement between American and a regional airline, Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. (Chautauqua). If the Company terminates its contract with Chautauqua without cause, Chautauqua has the right to put its 15 Embraer aircraft to the Company. If this were to happen, the Company would take possession of the aircraft and become liable for lease obligations totaling approximately $21 million per year with lease expirations in 2018 and 2019. These lease obligations are not included in the table above. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

  4.   Amounts represent contractual amounts due, including interest. Interest on variable rate debt was estimated based on the current rate at December 31, 2009. 

  5.   Includes noncancelable commitments to purchase goods or services, primarily information technology related support. The Company has made estimates as to the timing of certain payments primarily for construction related costs. The actual timing of payments may vary from these estimates. Substantially all of the Company’s purchase orders issued for other purchases in the ordinary course of business contain a 30-day cancellation clause that allows the Company to cancel an order with 30 days notice. 

  6.   Includes minimum pension contributions based on actuarially determined estimates and other postretirement benefit payments based on estimated payments through 2019. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

  7.   Total contractual obligations do not include long-term contracts that represent a variable expense (based on levels of operation) or where short-term cancellation provisions exist. 

Pension Obligations The Company is required to make minimum contributions to its defined benefit pension plans under the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004 and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. The Company estimates its 2010 required contribution to its defined benefit pension plans to be approximately $525 million under the provisions of these acts. 

The Company’s obligation for pension and retiree medical and other benefits increased from $6.6 billion at December 31, 2008 to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009, largely the result of a lower discount rate associated with declining interest rates in the bond markets in 2009. A significant portion of this increase is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, a component of stockholders’ equity. Consequently, the Company’s 2010 pension expense will be slightly higher than in 2009. 

Results of Operations 

The Company recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009 compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2009 loss is primarily attributable to a significant decrease in passenger revenue due to lower traffic and passenger yield. The 2009 results were also negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item. Special items of $184 million include the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. The restructuring charges, the non-cash tax item and the route impairment are described in Note 2, 8 and 11, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Company recorded a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008 compared to net earnings of $456 million in 2007. The Company’s 2008 results include an impairment charge of $1.1 billion to write the McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values, a $71 million accrual for employee severance cost and a $33 million expense related to the grounding of leased Airbus A300 aircraft prior to lease expiration, all in connection with announced capacity reductions and included in Special charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, the Company’s 2008 results include the sale of American Beacon for a net gain of $432 million included in Miscellaneous-net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the impact of a pension settlement charge of $103 million for one of the Company’s defined benefit plans included in Wages, salaries and benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

The Company’s 2007 results reflected an improvement in revenues somewhat offset by fuel prices and certain other costs. The 2007 results were impacted by productivity improvements and by cost reductions and the impact of several items including: a $138 million gain on the sale of AMR’s stake in ARINC included in Other Income, Miscellaneous – net, a $39 million gain to reflect the positive impact of the change to an 18-month expiration of AAdvantage miles included in Passenger revenue, and a $63 million charge associated with the retirement and planned disposal of 24 McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft and certain other equipment that previously had been temporarily stored included in Other operating expenses. 

Revenues 

2009 Compared to 2008  The Company’s revenues decreased approximately $3.8 billion, or 16.2 percent, to $19.9 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. American’s passenger revenues decreased by 17.5 percent, or $3.2 billion, on a capacity decrease of approximately 7.2 percent year over year. Mainline passenger load factor increased approximately 0.1 points to 80.7 percent and passenger revenue yield per passenger mile decreased 11.2 percent to 12.28 cents. This resulted in a decrease in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 11.1 percent to 9.91 cents. In 2009, American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, decreased by $474 million, or 19.1 percent, to $2.0 billion as a result of a reduction in capacity, decreased passenger traffic and lower yield. Regional Affiliates’ traffic decreased 6.7 percent to 8.3 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while capacity decreased 8.2 percent to 11.6 billion ASMs, resulting in a 1.2 point increase in passenger load factor to 71.4 percent. 

Cargo revenues decreased by 33.9 percent, or $296 million, primarily due to decreases in advertising mail and freight traffic resulting from the current economic downturn. 

Other revenues increased 5.4 percent, or $118 million, to $2.3 billion due to increases in certain passenger service charges instituted throughout the year in 2008. 

2008 Compared to 2007  The Company’s revenues increased approximately $831 million, or 3.6 percent, to $23.8 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. American’s passenger revenues increased by 3.3 percent, or $583 million, despite a significant capacity (ASM) decrease of 3.8 percent. American’s passenger load factor decreased approximately one point to 80.6 percent and passenger revenue yield per passenger mile increased 8.6 percent to 13.84 cents. This resulted in an increase in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 7.3 percent to 11.15 cents. In 2008, American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, remained flat at $2.5 billion. Regional Affiliates’ traffic decreased 10.2 percent to 8.8 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while capacity decreased 6.0 percent to 12.6 billion ASMs, resulting in a 3.2 point decrease in passenger load factor to 70.2 percent. 

Cargo revenues increased 5.9 percent, or $49 million, primarily as a result of increased fuel surcharges. 

Other revenues increased 9.2 percent, or $183 million, to $2.2 billion due to increases in certain passenger service charges. 

Operating Expenses 

2009 Compared to 2008 The Company’s total operating expenses decreased 18.5 percent, or $4.7 billion, to $20.9 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM in 2009 decreased 11.9 percent compared to 2008 to 12.22 cents. The decrease in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year decrease in AMR’s fuel prices from $3.03 per gallon in 2008 to $2.01 per gallon in 2009, including the impact of fuel hedging. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. A return to the recent historically high fuel prices and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s unit costs excluding fuel and special charges were greater for the year ended December 31, 2009 than the year ended December 31, 2008. Factors driving the increase include increased defined benefit pension expenses (due to the stock market decline in 2008), higher airport rent and landing fees and cost pressures associated with the Company’s capacity reductions announced in 2008 and 2009 and dependability initiatives. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)   Aircraft fuel expense decreased primarily due to a 33.7 percent decrease in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of fuel hedging) and a 7.0 percent decrease in the Company’s fuel consumption. The Company recorded $651 million in net losses and $380 million in net gains on its fuel hedging contracts for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

  (b)   Commissions, booking fees and credit card expense decreased in conjunction with the 16.2 percent decrease in the Company’s revenues. 

  (c)   Special charges in 2008 are related to an impairment charge of $1.1 billion to write down the Company’s McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. Special charges in 2009 relate to announced capacity reductions, the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the write down of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft to their estimated fair values. 

  (d)   Other operating expenses in 2009 include $184 million for the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. 

2008 Compared to 2007 The Company’s total operating expenses increased 16.8 percent, or $3.7 billion, to $25.7 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM in 2008 increased 21.9 percent compared to 2007 to 13.87 cents. The increase in operating expense was largely due to a dramatic year-over-year increase in fuel prices from $2.13 per gallon in 2007 to $3.03 per gallon in 2008, including the impact of fuel hedging. Fuel expense was the Company’s largest single expense category and the price increase resulted in $2.7 billion in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2008 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). The remaining increase in operating expense was due to the second quarter 2008 impairment charge of $1.2 billion to write the McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values and certain other special charges and employee charges. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  * Not meaningful 

  (a)   Aircraft fuel expense increased primarily due to a 42.4 percent increase in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of hedging gains of $380 million) offset by a 5.1 percent decrease in the Company’s fuel consumption, primarily due to reductions in available seat miles. 

  (b)   Maintenance, materials and repairs expense increased due to a heavier workscope of scheduled and unscheduled airframe maintenance overhauls, dependability initiatives, repair costs and volume, and contractual engine repair rates, which are driven by aircraft age. 

  (c)   Aircraft rental expense decreased principally due to lease expirations of Boeing 757 and McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft. 

  (d)   Special charges are related to an impairment charge in the second quarter of 2008 of $1.1 billion to write down the Company’s McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. This impairment charge was triggered by the record increase in fuel prices over the preceding twelve months. In addition, the Company accrued $71 million for severance costs and $33 million related to the grounding of leased Airbus A300 aircraft prior to lease expiration, both related to the capacity reductions. 

  (e)   Other operating expenses increased due in part to an increase in foreign exchange losses of $70 million. 

Other Income (Expense) 

Other income (expense) consists of Interest income and expense, Interest capitalized and Miscellaneous - net. 

2009 Compared to 2008 Decreases in both short-term investment balances throughout most of 2009 and decreases in interest rates caused a decrease in Interest income of $147 million, or 81.2 percent, to $34 million. Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 7.3 percent, to $744 million primarily as a result of a decrease in the Company’s long-term debt balance throughout most of 2009 and decreases in interest rates on variable rate debt. 

2008 Compared to 2007 Decreases in both short-term investment balances and interest rates caused a decrease in Interest income of $156 million, or 46.4 percent, to $181 million. Interest expense decreased $159 million, or 16.5 percent, to $803 million primarily as a result of a decrease in the Company’s long-term debt balance. Miscellaneous – net includes a gain of $432 million for the sale of American Beacon in 2008 and $138 million for the sale of ARINC in 2007. 

Income Tax Benefit 

The Company did not record a net tax provision (benefit) associated with 2008 net loss due to the Company providing a valuation allowance, as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. However, during 2009, the Company generated a pre-tax loss of $1.8 billion and other comprehensive income of approximately $701 million. In accordance with accounting standards, the net zero tax provision is required to be allocated between Operating loss and Accumulated other comprehensive income. Application of this guidance during 2009 resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $248 million, offset by a $248 million charge to other comprehensive income related to such items being recognized in 2009. See Note 8 for additional information regarding the allocation of income tax benefit to Operating income and Accumulated other comprehensive income. 

The Company has also recorded an income tax expense credit of approximately $36 million in 2009 resulting from the Company’s anticipated election under Section 3081 of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (as extended by Section 1201(b) of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009), allowing corporations a refund of certain research and alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit carryforwards in lieu of applicable bonus depreciation on certain qualifying capital investments. 

Operating Statistics 

The following table provides statistical information for American and Regional Affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (*) Excludes $2.5 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.8 billion of expense incurred related to Regional Affiliates in 2009, 2008 and 

   2007, respectively. 

(^) Reflects the impact of the reclassification of certain 2007 passenger revenues to conform with the current presentation. 

  Outlook 

The Company currently expects capacity for American’s mainline jet operations to decrease by approximately three percent in the first quarter of 2010 versus first quarter 2009. American’s mainline capacity for the full year 2010 is expected to increase approximately one percent from 2009 with half of a percent decrease in domestic capacity and nearly three percent growth in international capacity.  

The Company expects first quarter 2010 mainline unit costs to increase approximately 9.2 percent year over year. The first quarter 2010 and full year 2010 unit cost expectations reflect the increase in the cost of fuel during the second half of 2009 and projected fuel prices in 2010, anticipated higher revenue-related expenses (such as booking fees and commissions) and financing costs related to Boeing 737-800 and other aircraft deliveries. Due to these cost pressures, the Company expects first quarter unit costs excluding fuel to also be modestly higher than the prior year periods. 

The Company’s results are significantly affected by the price of jet fuel, which is in turn affected by a number of factors beyond the Company’s control. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. 

The Company is experiencing very weak demand for air travel driven by the severe downturn in the global economy. The Company initially implemented capacity reductions in 2008 and again in the first half of 2009 in response to record high fuel prices in 2008 and a rapidly deteriorating economy. Those capacity reductions have somewhat mitigated this weakening of demand. However, if the global economic downturn persists or worsens, demand for air travel may continue to weaken. No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or other steps the Company may take will be adequate to offset the effects of reduced demand. In addition, fare discounting has recently been both broader and deeper than usual, and the Company expects downward pressure on passenger yields into 2010. 

Other Information 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, actual results and the timing of the recognition of such amounts could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates used by management in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements: long-lived assets, routes, passenger revenue, frequent flyer program, stock compensation, pensions and retiree medical and other benefits, income taxes and derivatives accounting. 

Long-lived assets – The Company has approximately $16 billion of long-lived assets as of December 31, 2009, including approximately $15 billion related to flight equipment and other fixed assets. In addition to the original cost of these assets, the recorded value of the Company’s fixed assets is impacted by a number of estimates made by the Company, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and the Company’s determination as to whether aircraft are temporarily or permanently grounded. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company records impairment charges on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired, the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets and the net book value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. In making these determinations, the Company uses certain assumptions, including, but not limited to: (i) estimated fair value of the assets; and (ii) estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets, generally evaluated at a fleet level, which are based on additional assumptions such as asset utilization, length of service and estimated salvage values. A change in the Company's fleet plan has been the primary indicator that has resulted in an impairment charge in the past. 

The majority of American’s fleet types are depreciated over 30 years. It is possible that the ultimate lives of the Company’s aircraft will be significantly different than the current estimate due to unforeseen events in the future that impact the Company’s fleet plan, including positive or negative developments in the areas described above. For example, operating the aircraft for a longer period will result in higher maintenance, fuel and other operating costs than if the Company replaced the aircraft. At some point in the future, higher operating costs, including higher fuel expense, and/or improvement in the Company’s economic condition, could change the Company’s analysis of the impact of retaining aircraft versus replacing them with new aircraft. 

In the fourth quarter of 2009, due to the continuing severe downturn in the global economy and weakness in the regional jet aircraft market, the Company’s plan to sell certain of its Embraer RJ-135 aircraft was no longer feasible at the amount for which these aircraft had been valued. Consequently, the Company reclassified these aircraft from held for sale to held for use, tested them for impairment and concluded the carrying values of certain of its Embraer RJ-135 aircraft were no longer recoverable. The Company has recorded impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2009, and will now resume recording depreciation on these aircraft prospectively. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. 

In the second quarter of 2008, due to the Company’s capacity reduction announcement, the Company concluded a triggering event had occurred and required that fixed assets be tested for impairment. As a result of that testing, the Company recorded impairment charges related to its McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft and Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. 

International Slots and Route Authorities – AMR performs annual impairment tests on its international slots and route authorities, which are indefinite life intangible assets and as a result they are not amortized. As discussed above, the Company also performs impairment tests when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. These tests are primarily based on estimates of discounted future cash flows, using assumptions based on historical results adjusted to reflect the Company’s best estimate of future market and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair value. The Company's estimates of fair value represent its best estimate based on industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions. 

During 2009, the Company adopted guidance on measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities. The guidance introduces a framework for measuring fair value primarily based on exit prices and expands required disclosure about fair value measurements of assets and liabilities. 

The Company had recorded international slots and route authorities of $736 million as of December 31, 2009. The Company estimates the fair value of these assets based on market information and estimated future cash flows. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, given the significant uncertainty regarding how open skies agreements will ultimately affect the Company’s operations at Heathrow and Narita, as well as volatility in the revenue and fuel environment, the actual results could differ from those estimates. Further, as a part of the annual impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain routes (primarily in Latin America) was less than the carrying value, and therefore, the Company recorded an impairment charge. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the valuation of the Company’s routes. 

     Passenger revenue – Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a component of Air traffic liability. Revenue derived from ticket sales is recognized at the time service is provided. However, due to various factors, including the industry’s pricing structure and interline agreements throughout the industry, certain amounts are recognized in revenue using estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized, including breakage. These estimates are generally based upon the evaluation of historical trends, including the use of regression analysis and other methods to model the outcome of future events based on the Company’s historical experience, and are recognized at the scheduled time of departure. The Company’s estimation techniques have been applied consistently from year to year. However, due to changes in the Company’s ticket refund policy and changes in the travel profile of customers, historical trends may not be representative of future results. 

Frequent flyer program – American uses the incremental cost method to account for the portion of its frequent flyer liability incurred when AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American or its regional affiliates. 

The Company considers breakage in its incremental cost calculation and recognizes breakage on AAdvantage miles sold over the estimated period of usage for sold miles that are ultimately redeemed. The Company calculates its breakage estimate using separate breakage rates for miles earned by flying on American and miles earned through other companies who have purchased AAdvantage miles for distribution to their customers, due to differing behavior patterns. Management considers historical patterns of account breakage to be a useful indicator when estimating future breakage. Future program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the deferred revenue balance, as well as recognized revenues from the program. 

American includes fuel, food, passenger insurance and reservations/ticketing costs in the calculation of incremental cost. These estimates are generally updated based upon the Company’s 12-month historical average of such costs. American also accrues a frequent flyer liability for the mileage credits expected to be used for travel on participating airlines based on historical usage patterns and contractual rates. 

Revenue earned from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies is recognized in two components. The first component represents the revenue for air transportation sold and is valued at fair value. This revenue is deferred along with revenue related to expected breakage of sold miles and recognized over the period the mileage is expected to be used, which is currently estimated to be 28 months. The second revenue component, based on the residual method and representing the marketing services sold, is recognized as related services are provided. 

The Company’s total liability for future AAdvantage award redemptions for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, as well as unrecognized revenue from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies, was approximately $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively (and is recorded as a component of Air traffic liability in the consolidated balance sheets), representing 19.2 percent and 18.2 percent of AMR's total current liabilities, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

The approximate number of free travel awards used for travel on American and American Eagle was 5.2 million one-way travel awards in 2009 (or 2.6 million round trip awards) and 6.2 million one-way travel awards in 2008 (or 3.1 million round trip travel awards) representing approximately 8.9 and 9.7 percent of passengers boarded in each year, respectively. The Company believes displacement of revenue passengers is minimal given the Company’s load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory, and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to total passengers boarded. 

Changes to the percentage of the amount of revenue deferred, deferred recognition period, percentage of awards expected to be redeemed for travel on participating airlines, breakage or cost per mile estimates could have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues or incremental cost accrual in the year of the change as well as in future years. 

Stock Compensation –The Company grants awards under its various share based payment plans and utilizes option pricing models or fair value models to estimate the fair value of its awards. Certain awards contain a market performance condition, which is taken into account in estimating the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of those awards is calculated by multiplying the stock price on the date of grant by the expected payout percentage and the number of shares granted. The Company accounts for these awards over the three year term of the award based on the grant date fair value, provided adequate shares are available to settle the awards. For awards where adequate shares are not anticipated to be available or that only permit settlement in cash, the fair value is re-measured each reporting period.  

Pensions and retiree medical and other benefits – The Company recognizes the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations) of its pension and postretirement plans in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 

The Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. The Company uses certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of the: (i) discount rate; (ii) expected return on plan assets; and (iii) expected health care cost trend rate and starting in 2007, the (iv) estimated age of pilot retirement (as discussed below). 

These assumptions as of December 31 were: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s discount rate is determined based upon the review of year-end high quality corporate bond rates. Lowering the discount rate by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2009 would increase the Company’s pension and postretirement benefits obligations by approximately $727 million and $153 million, respectively, and increase estimated 2010 pension and postretirement benefits expense by $76 million and $1 million, respectively. 

The expected return on plan assets is based upon an evaluation of the Company's historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions and the Company’s target asset allocation of 35 percent longer duration corporate and U.S. government/agency bonds, 25 percent U.S. value stocks, 20 percent developed international stocks, 5 percent emerging markets stocks and bonds and 15 percent alternative (private) investments. The expected return on plan assets component of the Company’s net periodic benefit cost is calculated based on the fair value of plan assets and the Company’s target asset allocation. The Company monitors its actual asset allocation and believes that its long-term asset allocation will continue to approximate its target allocation. The Company’s historical annualized ten-year rate of return on plan assets, calculated using a geometric compounding of monthly returns, is approximately 7.96 percent as of December 31, 2009. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2009 would increase estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $35 million. 

The health care cost trend rate is based upon an evaluation of the Company's historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by 100 basis points would increase estimated 2010 postretirement benefits expense by $3 million. 

Income taxes – The Company generally believes that the positions taken on previously filed income tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authorities. The Company has recorded income tax and related interest liabilities where the Company believes its position may not be sustained or where the full income tax benefit will not be recognized. The effects of potential income tax benefits resulting from the Company’s unrecognized tax positions are not reflected in the tax balances of the financial statements. Recognized and unrecognized tax positions are reviewed and adjusted as events occur that affect the Company’s judgment about the recognizability of income tax benefits, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits, release of administrative guidance, or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax position. The Company records a deferred tax asset valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company considers its historical earnings, trends, and outlook for future years in making this determination. The Company had a deferred tax valuation allowance of $2.9 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009 and 2008. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Derivatives – As required by U.S. GAAP, the Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship. The fair value of the Company’s hedging contracts is recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and is recorded gross of the collateral posted and on a trade basis. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had derivative contracts in a net asset position at fair value of $55 million including a liability related to contracts that settled in December. A deferred loss of $63 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) at December 31, 2009 and will be recognized in future periods as contracts settle. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to change financial reporting by enterprises involved with variable interest entities (VIEs). The standard replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial interest in a VIE with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a VIE and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive the entity’s residual returns. This accounting standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this pronouncement on its consolidated financial statements and has determined the impact of adoption to be immaterial based on its current structures with VIEs. 

In November of 2009, the FASB issued new guidance that significantly changes the accounting for revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables by requiring entities to separately account for individual deliverables in more of these arrangements and estimate the fair value of each component individually on a pro-rata basis. The guidance removes the criterion that entities must use vendor-specific objective and reliable evidence of fair value when separately accounting for deliverables, allowing for the recognition of revenue in a manner that more closely aligns with the economics of certain arrangements, based on management’s estimate of the selling price. The standard must be applied prospectively to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. In addition, the FASB significantly expanded the disclosures related to multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. Although the Company continues to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements, the Company believes the impact of adoption will not be material in 2011, but could have a significant impact on future results as new or materially modified revenue arrangements with certain partners are established in the normal course of business. 

ITEM 7(A).QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions 

The risk inherent in the Company’s market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate the Company’s exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for accounting policies and additional information regarding derivatives. 

Aircraft Fuel The Company’s earnings are substantially affected by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs primarily by using jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts. Market risk is estimated as a hypothetical 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 and 2008 cost per gallon of fuel. Based on projected 2010 fuel usage, such an increase would result in an increase to Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $499 million in 2010, inclusive of the impact of effective fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2009, and assumes the Company’s fuel hedging program remains effective. Such an increase would have resulted in an increase to projected Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $399 million in 2009, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2008. As of January 2010, the Company had cash flow hedges, with collars and options, covering approximately 24 percent of its estimated 2010 fuel requirements. Comparatively, as of December 31, 2008, the Company had hedged, with collars and options, approximately 35 percent of its estimated 2009 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2010 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.48 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.80 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). The Company’s collars represent approximately 22 percent of its estimated 2010 fuel requirements. A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. 

Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in crude oil or other crude oil related commodities. The Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship. 

Foreign Currency The Company is exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. The Company’s largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and various Latin American currencies. The Company does not currently have a foreign currency hedge program related to its foreign currency-denominated ticket sales. A uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2009 and 2008 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in operating income of approximately $136 million and $146 million for the years ending December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, due to the Company’s foreign-denominated revenues exceeding its foreign-denominated expenses. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2010 and 2009 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

On January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan Government devalued its currency from 2.15 bolivars per U.S. dollar to 4.30 bolivars per U.S. dollar and the currency was designated as hyperinflationary. As a result, the Company recognized a loss of $53 million related to the currency remeasurement in January 2010. The Company does not expect any significant ongoing impact of the currency devaluation on its operations in Venezuela, but there can be no assurances to that effect. 

Interest The Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on its interest income from cash and short-term investments, and its interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. The Company’s largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Company had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 23 percent and 28 percent of its total long-term debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If the Company’s interest rates average 10 percent more in 2010 than they did at December 31, 2009, the Company’s interest expense would increase by approximately $8 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would increase by approximately $1 million. In comparison, at December 31, 2008, the Company estimated that if interest rates averaged 10 percent more in 2009 than they did at December 31, 2008, the Company’s interest expense would have increased by approximately $13 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would have increased by approximately $7 million. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s variable rate long-term debt and cash and short-term investment balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 

Market risk for fixed rate long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates and amounts to approximately $316 million and $297 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fair values of the Company’s long-term debt were estimated using quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. 

ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS