PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) was incorporated in October 1982. Virtually all of AMR’s operations fall within the airline industry. AMR's principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934. At the end of 2009, American provided scheduled jet service to approximately 160 destinations throughout North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia. 

American, AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle) and the AmericanConnection® airline serve approximately 250 cities in 40 countries with, on average, more than 3,400 daily flights. The combined network fleet numbers approximately 900 aircraft. American Airlines is also a founding member of oneworld® Alliance, which enables member airlines to offer their customers more services and benefits than any member airline can provide individually. These services include a broader route network, opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles across the combined oneworld network and more airport lounges. Together, oneworld members serve nearly 700 destinations in approximately 150 countries, with more than 8,000 daily departures. American is also one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard American’s passenger fleet. 

AMR Eagle, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR, owns two regional airlines which do business as "American Eagle” – American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc. (Executive) (collectively, the American Eagle carriers). American also contracts with an independently owned regional airline, which does business as “AmericanConnection” (the AmericanConnection® carrier).  

The AMR Eagle fleet is operated to feed passenger traffic to American pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle under which American receives all passenger revenue from flights and pays AMR Eagle a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to AMR Eagle under the capacity purchase agreement are available to pay for various operating expenses of AMR Eagle, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership. As of December 31, 2009, AMR Eagle operated over 1,500 daily departures, offering scheduled passenger service to over 150 destinations in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean. On a separate company basis, AMR Eagle reported $2.1 billion in revenue in 2009. However, this historical financial information is not indicative of what AMR Eagle’s future revenues might be if AMR Eagle were a stand-alone entity.  

Recent Events 

The Company recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009 compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2009 net loss is primarily attributable to a significant decrease in passenger revenue due to lower traffic and passenger yield (passenger revenue per passenger mile). In 2009, the Company experienced very weak demand for air travel driven by the continuing severe downturn in the global economy. In addition, as a result of reduced demand, substantial fare discounting occurred across the industry, which resulted in decreased passenger yield. Mainline passenger revenue decreased by $3.2 billion to $15.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008. Mainline passenger unit revenues decreased 11.1 percent in 2009 due to an 11.2 percent decrease in passenger yield compared to 2008, partially offset by a load factor increase of approximately 0.1 points. Passenger yield has decreased significantly from the Company’s peak yield set in 2000, despite cumulative inflation of approximately 26 percent over the same time frame. 

The Company initially implemented capacity reductions in 2008 and again in the first half of 2009 in response to record high fuel prices in 2008 and a rapidly deteriorating economy. These capacity reductions somewhat mitigated the weakening of demand. AMR reduced mainline seating capacity by approximately 7.2 percent for 2009 versus 2008. 

The Company’s results were positively affected by the year-over-year decrease in fuel prices from an average of $3.03 per gallon in 2008 to an average of $2.01 per gallon in 2009. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. Fuel price volatility, additional increases in the price of fuel, and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and its results of operations. 

In addition, the Company’s 2009 operating results were negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item. Special items of $184 million include the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. Impacting comparative results, the Company incurred restructuring charges of $1.2 billion in 2008 mostly related to impairment charges on certain aircraft fleets associated with 2008 capacity reductions. 

In reaction to the challenges of very weak demand and high and volatile fuel prices, the Company initiated a series of actions intended to better position it to meet the industry’s economic challenges while continuing to build on its strategy for long term success, including execution of its fleet renewal and replacement plan, initiatives to improve dependability and on-time performance, and a continued emphasis on a range of service charges introduced in 2008 to generate additional revenue. 

In 2009, the Company raised a total of $4.3 billion in cash through financing transactions, secured financing commitments covering all aircraft on firm order scheduled to be delivered to the Company in 2010 and 2011. announced plans to focus its network by reallocating capacity to primary markets in Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, New York and Los Angeles, and announced plans to enhance its fleet to better serve customers. 

See Notes 4, 5, 6 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of these financing transactions and other committed financing of future aircraft deliveries. 

In February 2010, American and JAL announced the decision to strengthen their relationship. The carriers, both members of the oneworld alliance, jointly applied to the Department of Transportation (DOT) for antitrust immunity (ATI) on certain routes, and jointly notified the Ministry of Land Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Japan (MLIT) of the proposed cooperation. The Company believes this application will meet DOT’s pro-consumer and pro-competition criteria for granting ATI. As a part of the application, American and JAL entered into a joint business agreement which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia, through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. This, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products and quality service to their customers. The joint business agreement is subject to ATI approval and certain other conditions. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information on the JAL joint business application. 

Implementation of the joint business agreement is subject to U.S. and foreign regulatory authorization, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements, and other approvals. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that the Company may derive from such arrangements. 

The Company’s ability to become profitable and its ability to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of factors, many of which are largely beyond the Company’s control. Certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business and financial results are discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A. In order to remain competitive and to improve its financial condition, the Company must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce its costs. It has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether the Company’s initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond its control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. It will be very difficult for the Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis and to return to profitability if the overall industry revenue environment does not improve substantially or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels. 

Competition 

Domestic Air Transportation The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any United States (U.S.) air carrier deemed fit by DOT is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service. American operates in five primary markets: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O'Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles. 

The American Eagle® carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s primary markets, and Boston and Raleigh/Durham. The AmericanConnection® carrier currently provides connecting service to American through St. Louis. In 2010, this service is expected to be repositioned to provide connecting service to American through Chicago O’Hare to support American’s previously announced network restructuring. American's competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations. 

On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: AirTran Airways (Air Tran), Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Continental Airlines (Continental), Delta Air Lines (including Northwest Airlines) (Delta), Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue), Hawaiian Airlines, Southwest Airlines (Southwest), Spirit Airlines, United, US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and their affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. 

Most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 11) in recent years. It is possible that one or more of the Company’s competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11. Successful reorganizations present the Company with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing contracts. 

International Air Transportation In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company's operating revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2009, and 40 percent and 37 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additional information about the Company's foreign operations is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 

In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers' rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other's markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers – including American – have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Brussels Airlines, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Dragonair, Deutsche Bahn German Rail, EL AL, Etihad Airways, EVA Air, Finnair, GOL, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, JAL, Jet Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malév Hungarian Airlines, Mexicana, Qantas Airways, Royal Jordanian, SNCF French Rail and Vietnam Airlines. 

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, LAN Airlines, Iberia, Qantas, JAL, Malév Hungarian, Mexicana, and Royal Jordanian. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers' frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers' airport lounge facilities. Several of American's major competitors are members of marketing/operational alliances that enjoy ATI. American and British Airways, the largest members of the oneworld alliance, are restricted in their relationship because they currently lack ATI for commercial cooperation. They are, therefore, at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other alliances that have ATI for such cooperation. 

In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, providing for commercial cooperation on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. In connection with the joint business agreement, American, British Airways and Iberia, along with Finnair and Royal Jordanian, applied to DOT for ATI for their planned cooperation, and in February of 2010, DOT tentatively granted the parties' application for ATI subject to certain conditions including requirements that American and British Airways lease a total of four takeoff and landing slots at London Heathrow (two slot pairs) to other carriers beginning in 2011, that specified provisions of the joint business agreement be amended, and that the carriers submit reports regarding progress towards the alliance’s stated goals and the realization of public benefits. DOT also established a procedure that allows any interested party to submit comments on its tentative findings within the next 45 days. American is reviewing the order granting tentative approval with the other applicant carriers, and expects to respond to DOT within the required 45 day comment period. A final decision on the application is expected after DOT’s review of responses received from American and other interested parties during the comment period. 

In September of 2009, the European Union (EU) issued a Statement of Objection (SO) related to the proposed joint business agreement. The SO asserts, among other things, that without remedies, the joint business agreement would infringe certain aspects of EU competition law. The carriers have responded to the SO and have sought to demonstrate the consumer benefits of the joint business agreement. The SO process is an anticipated part of the process of obtaining clearance from EU competition authorities. The parties have been in discussions and have offered a set of commitments, including offering to lease slots to competitors to serve certain routes, to address the EU's remaining competition concerns. 

Implementation of the joint business agreement and the related arrangements is subject to conditions, including final approval from DOT and clearance from EU competition authorities as referred to above, various other U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements, and other approvals. Following satisfaction of those conditions, American expects to begin implementing the joint business agreement in the second half of 2010. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits the Company may derive from such arrangements. 

Price Competition The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors' fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity. In 2009, significant fare discounting occurred throughout the industry, reducing the Company’s passenger yield. 

In recent years, a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) have entered the domestic market. Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have reorganized in recent years under Chapter 11, including United, Delta and US Airways. These cost reduction efforts and bankruptcy reorganizations have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs. In the past, lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions. If fare reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields and/or cost reductions, the Company’s operating results will be negatively impacted. 

Regulation 

General The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. 

The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is progressing toward the completion of over 200 airworthiness directives, a number of which require the Company to perform significant work and to incur additional expenses. Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. 

DOT and DOJ have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements. 

International International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company's operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in certain international markets. 

In April 2007, the U.S. and the EU approved an open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport. The provisions of the agreement took effect on March 30, 2008. Under the agreement, every U.S. and EU airline is authorized to operate between airports in the U.S. and Heathrow. Notwithstanding the open skies agreement, Heathrow is a slot-controlled airport. Only three airlines besides American were previously allowed to provide service to Heathrow. The agreement has resulted in the Company facing increased competition in serving Heathrow, where the Company has lost market share. In addition, the Company is facing additional competition in other European markets. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

In December of 2009, the U.S. and Japan reached a tentative open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and Japan open access to each other’s markets. This open skies agreement will enable new working relationships, particularly pro-competitive joint business agreements granted ATI by the U.S. and Japanese governments. Final approval of the agreement is contingent upon ATI and certain other issues. 

Security In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the U.S. The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights. 

Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000. In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers. 

Airline Fares Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets. 

Airport Access  Historically, the FAA designated John F. Kennedy International (JFK) Airport, La Guardia (LGA) Airport and Washington Reagan airports as high-density traffic airports. The high-density rule limited the number of Instrument Flight Rule operations - take-offs and landings - permitted per hour and required that a “take-off/landing slot right” support each operation. The high density rule was repealed for JFK and LGA; however, both airports remain subject to operating restrictions. 

In order to remedy congestion at LGA due to elimination of slot restrictions, in 2007 the FAA placed caps on total operations and required carriers at LGA to hold operating authorizations. In January 2009, the FAA announced a voluntary program at LGA aimed at reducing hourly scheduled operations at LGA from 75 to 71, which is expected to help ease congestion and delay without materially affecting carrier operations. 

In December 2007, DOT reached an agreement with domestic airlines to ease congestion at JFK by shifting the timing of certain flights. Such re-timing has not had a significant impact on the Company’s flights to or from JFK.  

In late 2008, the FAA issued new rules for carriers operating at LGA, JFK and Newark that would have fundamentally changed the manner in which operating authorizations are held and distributed at those airports. Every departure and landing would have required an authorization and existing carriers would have been requested to reduce service to provide authorizations for auction to other carriers without increasing total airport operations. The Company, along with numerous other carriers and interested parties, opposed adoption of these rules. Immediately after the rules were issued, the Air Transport Association (ATA) and others petitioned for judicial review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit challenging the rules and seeking a stay (preliminary injunction) against their implementation. The court granted the stay motion, thus blocking the rules from taking effect, pending the court’s ultimate decision on the merits. In May of 2009, the FAA withdrew its proposal of these rules at these airports. Any future proposals that could require the Company to alter the routes and services it currently operates at LGA, JFK and Newark could have potentially material adverse effects on the Company. 

In 2006, the FAA issued an order requiring that carriers hold arrival authorizations to land during certain hours at Chicago O’Hare. That order limits the purchase or sale of arrival authorizations. The Company has not experienced any significant adverse impact from this order.  

The high-density rule remains in effect at Washington Reagan. Legislation has been introduced to abolish the perimeter rule at that airport, which (with exceptions) limits nonstop flights to a distance of 1,250 miles. Some foreign airports, including London Heathrow and Tokyo Narita, major destinations for American, also require slot allocations.  

Although the Company is constrained by slots, it currently has sufficient slot authorizations to operate its existing flights. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or obtain slots in the future to expand its operations or change its schedules because, among other factors, slot allocations are subject to changes in government policies and antitrust negotiations. 

In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law. The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic areas. Among other things, the Act eventually eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field. The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field. 

Environmental Matters The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company's operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements. 

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. 

Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU recently approved measures that impose emissions limits on airlines with operations to, from or within the EU as part of an emissions trading system beginning in 2012. The Company is continuing to assess the potential costs of the EU measures. Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information. 

The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. The Company anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial. The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial. 

Labor 

The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 33 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009. The average full-time equivalent number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 78,900. 

The majority of these employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. 

In April 2003, American reached agreements (the Labor Agreements) with its three major unions: the Allied Pilots Association (the APA) which represents American’s pilots, the Transport Workers Union of America (AFL-CIO) (the TWU), which represents seven different employee groups, and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (the APFA), which represents American’s flight attendants. The Labor Agreements substantially moderated the labor costs associated with the employees represented by the unions. In conjunction with the Labor Agreements, American also implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel, including officers and other management (the Management Reductions). The Labor Agreements became amendable in 2008 (although the parties agreed that they could begin the negotiations process as early as 2006).  

In 2006, American and the APA commenced negotiations under the RLA. In April of 2008, following a request by the APA, a mediator was appointed by the NMB. The parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time. The APA has filed a number of grievances, lawsuits and complaints, most of which American believes are part of a corporate campaign related to the union’s labor agreement negotiations with American. While American is vigorously defending these claims, unfavorable outcomes of one or more of them could require American to incur additional costs, change the way it conducts some parts of its business, or otherwise adversely affect the Company. 

Also in 2006, American and the TWU commenced negotiations with respect only to dispatchers, one of the seven groups at American represented by the TWU. Subsequently, following a request by the parties, a mediator was appointed by the NMB for the dispatcher negotiations. Thereafter, in November 2007, American and the TWU commenced negotiations under the RLA with respect to the other employee groups represented by the TWU. Direct negotiations between American and the TWU employees with respect to those other groups continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed with the NMB for mediation with respect to the fleet service, stores, ground school instructors, and simulator technician groups of employees. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. Then in February 2009, following a request by the TWU, a mediator was appointed by the NMB with respect to the mechanics and the technical specialists. All parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time. 

American and the APFA commenced negotiations in the first half of 2008. Direct negotiations between the parties continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed an application to the NMB asking that a mediator be appointed. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. 

The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), which represents American Eagle pilots, reached agreement with American Eagle effective September 1, 1997, to have all of the pilots of the American Eagle® carriers (currently American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc.) covered by a single contract. This agreement lasts until January 1, 2013. The agreement provided to the parties the right to seek limited changes in 2000, 2004 and 2008. If the parties were unable to agree on the limited changes, the agreement provided that any issues would be resolved by interest arbitration, without the exercise of self-help (such as a strike). ALPA and American Eagle negotiated a tentative agreement in 2000, but that agreement failed in ratification. Thereafter, the parties participated in interest arbitration. The interest arbitration panel determined the limited changes that should be made and these changes were appropriately effected. In 2004 and in 2008, the parties successfully negotiated limited changes. The pilot agreement is amendable January 1, 2013; however, the parties have agreed that contract openers may be exchanged 120 days prior to that date. 

The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) represents the flight attendants of the American Eagle carriers. The current agreement between the American Eagle carriers and the AFA became amendable on October 27, 2009. The parties have exchanged contract openers and have commenced direct negotiations. The other union employees at the American Eagle carriers are covered by separate agreements with the TWU. The agreements between the American Eagle carriers and the TWU were amendable beginning on October 1, 2007, and the parties commenced negotiations. In January 2009, an application for mediation was filed with the NMB and a mediator was appointed to assist the parties. In January 2010, American Eagle and the TWU reached a tentative agreement with respect to aircraft maintenance technicians and fleet service clerks for 24 months, effective the date of signing. Finalization and signing of the tentative agreement is expected in early 2010. However, the agreement is subject to ratification by the membership of TWU, and there are no assurances that the agreement will be approved. 

Fuel 

The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. The Company's fuel costs and consumption for the years 2007 through 2009 were: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The impact of fuel price changes on the Company and its competitors depends on various factors, including hedging strategies. The Company has a fuel hedging program in which it enters into jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts to dampen the impact of the volatility of jet fuel prices. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s fuel hedging program increased (decreased) the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $651 million, ($380) million and ($239) million, respectively. As of January 2010, the Company had cash flow hedges, with option contracts, primarily heating oil collars and call options, covering approximately 24 percent of its estimated 2010 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2010 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.48 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.80 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel. 

Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Frequent Flyer Program 

American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 64 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, American Eagle, and the AmericanConnection® carrier or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. 

American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. The Company believes that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2009, AAdvantage had approximately 64 million total members, and 600 billion outstanding award miles. During 2009, AAdvantage issued approximately 175 billion miles, of which approximately two-thirds were sold to program participants. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage. 

In 2009, American entered into an arrangement under which an affinity partner pre-purchased AAdvantage miles from American as further discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Other Matters 

Seasonality and Other Factors The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year, since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2009 is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions. 

Insurance The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected. 

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through August 31, 2010, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that the Company could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but the Company would incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms. There can be no assurance that comparable war-risk coverage will be available in the commercial market. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, the Company would be adversely affected. 

While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the premium increases immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected. 

Other Government Matters In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted. 

Available Information The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS