PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that are not historical in nature should be deemed forward-looking statements that are inherently uncertain. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of forward-looking statements and factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those projected.

As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, the terms “Tesoro,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” may refer to Tesoro Corporation, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries or all of them taken as a whole. The words “we,” “us” or “our” generally include Tesoro Logistics LP (“TLLP”), a publicly traded limited partnership, and its subsidiaries as consolidated subsidiaries of Tesoro Corporation with certain exceptions where there are transactions or obligations between TLLP and Tesoro Corporation or its other subsidiaries. When used in descriptions of agreements and transactions, “TLLP” or the “Partnership” refers to TLLP and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Tesoro was incorporated in Delaware in 1968. Based in San Antonio, Texas, we are one of the largest independent petroleum refining, logistics and marketing companies in the United States. Our subsidiaries, operating through three business segments, primarily transport crude oil and manufacture, transport and sell transportation fuels. Our refining operating segment (“Refining”) refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels, such as gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas and petroleum coke for sale in bulk markets to a wide variety of customers within our markets. Our logistics operating segment (“Logistics”), which is comprised of TLLP’s assets and operations, includes certain crude oil and natural gas gathering assets, natural gas and natural gas liquid (“NGL”) processing assets, and crude oil and refined products terminalling, transportation and storage assets acquired from Tesoro and third parties. The TLLP financial and operational data presented include the historical results of all assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the dates they were acquired by TLLP. The historical results of operations of these assets have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the current presentation. Our marketing segment (“Marketing”) sells transportation fuels through branded and unbranded channels. The branded business sells transportation fuels using a unique brand portfolio with the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM, RebelTM and Tesoro® brands across a network of 2,397 retail stations. See Notes 17 and 21 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for additional information on our operating segments and properties.

REFINING

Overview

We currently own and operate six petroleum refineries located in the western United States with a combined crude oil capacity of 875 Mbpd. Our refining segment buys and refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels that we sell to a wide variety of customers. Demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the fall and winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in highway traffic. As a result, our operating results for both the refining and marketing segments for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than the second and third quarters.

4
Crude oil capacity and actual throughput by refinery are as follows (in Mbpd) as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil. In December 2015, we updated our crude oil capacity from 850 Mbpd to 875 Mbpd.

(b)See discussion regarding changes in total refining throughput in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7.

Feedstock Purchases. We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources either through the spot market or term agreements with renewal provisions and volume commitments. We purchase domestic crude oil produced primarily in North Dakota, Alaska, California, Utah and Wyoming. We purchase foreign crude oil produced in South America, the Middle East, Canada, western Africa and other locations. We lease access to the Trans-Panama pipeline (the “Panama Pipeline”) and several tanks in Panama through agreements expiring in 2017 that allow us to deliver the crude oil acquired in Africa and the Atlantic region of South America to refineries on the West Coast. We also transport crude oil across the Panama Pipeline for third parties. At December 31, 2015, we held title to approximately 7.1 million barrels of crude oil in transit or in Panama for delivery to our refineries on the West Coast or to third parties.

Sources of our crude oil purchases based on volumes purchased were as follows at December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our refineries process both heavy and light crude oil. Light crude oil, when refined, produces a greater proportion of higher value transportation fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and as a result is typically more expensive than heavy crude oil. In contrast, heavy crude oil produces more low value by-products and heavy residual oils. These lower value products can be upgraded to higher value products through additional, more complex and expensive refining processes. Primary crude oil characteristics and sources of crude oil for our refineries are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5
Refined Products. The total products produced in the refining process are referred to as the refining yield. The refining yield consists primarily of transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, but may also include other products such as heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and asphalt.

Throughput Volumes and Refining Yields. Throughput volumes by feedstock type and region and our refining yield by region are summarized below (in Mbpd) for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)The majority of internally produced fuel is consumed during the refining process.

California Refineries

Los Angeles

Our Los Angeles refinery is located in the Carson-Wilmington area of California on approximately 930 acres about 20 miles south of Los Angeles. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, delayed coking, hydrocracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking, butane isomerization and alkylation. The refinery produces a high proportion of transportation fuels, including CARB gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, conventional gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. The refinery also produces heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and electricity.

Martinez

Our Martinez refinery is located in Martinez, California on approximately 2,200 acres about 30 miles east of San Francisco. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, delayed coking, hydrocracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking and alkylation units. The refinery produces a high proportion of transportation fuels, including CARB gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, conventional gasoline and diesel fuel. The refinery also produces liquefied petroleum gas and petroleum coke.

Pacific Northwest Refineries

Anacortes

Our Anacortes refinery is located in northwest Washington on approximately 950 acres about 70 miles north of Seattle. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, deasphalting, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking, butane isomerization and alkylation units, which enable us to produce a high proportion of transportation fuels such as conventional gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. The refinery also produces heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas.

6
Kenai

Our Kenai refinery is located on the Cook Inlet near Kenai, Alaska on approximately 450 acres about 60 miles southwest of Anchorage. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, hydrocracking, hydrotreating, naphtha reforming, diesel desulfurizing and light naphtha isomerization units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, as well as other products, including heating oil, heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas and asphalt.

Mid-Continent Refineries

Mandan

Our Mandan refinery is located on the Missouri River near Mandan, North Dakota on approximately 950 acres. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating and alkylation units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas.

Salt Lake City

Our Salt Lake City refinery is located in Salt Lake City, Utah on approximately 150 acres. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating and alkylation units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas. In 2015, we completed capital improvements to the Utah refinery designed to improve yields of gasoline and diesel fuel, improve the flexibility of processing crude feedstocks, which increased throughput capacity to 63 Mbpd.

Logistics

Terminal and Pipelines. We transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through TLLP and third-party terminals and pipelines in our market areas and through purchases and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow for movement of intermediate and finished products, which permit us to optimize our value chain and maximize utilization.

Marine. We charter tankers to optimize the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks, and refined products within our refinery system and ensure adequate shipping capacity. Our current U.S.-flag and foreign-flag tanker time charters will expire between 2016 and 2019, unless we exercise renewal options. We also time charter barge and tug units and ship assist tugs with varying terms ending in 2016 through 2018, though some of these barges have renewal options. All of our chartered tankers and barges are double-hulled.

Rail. We maintain a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and support our refining operations. During 2015, Tesoro started taking delivery of 210 enhanced DOT120J200 tank cars for crude oil service. These cars exceed the new federal standards issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) in May 2015. The new DOT regulations allow for an orderly phase out or retrofit of previous generation rail cars. Tesoro will continue to comply with all regulatory requirements and we intend to continue ordering new rail cars that are among the safest available at the time of order.

Refined Product Sales

Our marketing segment provides a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in bulk markets in the western United States. We also export gasoline and diesel fuel to certain foreign markets. Our bulk sales are primarily to independent unbranded distributors, other refining and marketing companies, utilities, railroads, airlines and marine and industrial end-users. Our sales include refined products that we manufacture, purchase or receive through exchange arrangements.

Sales of Purchased Products. In the normal course of business, we purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale through our marketing and bulk operations to our customers to meet local market demands and fulfill supply commitments. We purchase these refined products, primarily gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and industrial and marine fuel blendstocks, mainly in the spot market. Refined product sales may exceed our yield due to purchased refined products.

7
TLLP

Overview

TLLP is a fee-based, growth-oriented Delaware limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. TLLP is a publicly traded limited partnership that is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TLLP and operates with three segments: Gathering, Processing, and Terminalling and Transportation. TLLP owns and operate over 3,500 miles of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines, 29 crude oil and refined products truck and marine terminals that have over 15 million barrels of storage capacity. In addition, TLLP owns and operates four natural gas processing complexes and one fractionation facility. TLLP generates revenues by charging fees for gathering crude oil and natural gas, for processing natural gas, and for terminalling, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products. TLLP’s customers experience modest seasonality due to regulatory restrictions, weather conditions and seasonal refined product demand, resulting in higher volumes during the summer months and lower volumes during the winter months. Many of the effects of seasonality on TLLP’s operating results are mitigated through fee-based commercial agreements that include minimum volume commitments.

TLLP intends to continue expanding its business through organic growth, including the construction of new assets and increasing the utilization of existing assets, and by acquiring assets from us and third parties. TLLP’s continued expansion of the logistics business will allow us to optimize the value of our assets within the midstream and downstream value chain.

Gathering

TLLP’s Gathering segment consists of crude oil, natural gas and produced water gathering systems in the North Dakota Williston Basin/Bakken Shale area (the “Bakken Region”) and the Uinta, Vermillion and greater Green River basins (the “Rockies Region”). TLLP’s High Plains System, located in the Bakken Region, gathers and transports crude oil from various production locations in this area for transportation to Tesoro’s North Dakota refinery and other destinations in the Bakken Region, including export rail terminals and pipelines. TLLP’s natural gas gathering systems include the Uinta Basin, Vermillion, Williston, Green River, and Three Rivers gathering systems, its equity method investments in Uintah Basin Field Services, L.L.C. and Three Rivers Gathering, L.L.C., and two pipelines regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) through which it provides natural gas and crude oil transportation services.

The following table summarizes certain TLLP Gathering segment operating information for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Also includes barrels that were gathered and then delivered into TLLP’s High Plains pipeline by truck.

Processing

TLLP’s Processing segment consists of four gas processing complexes and one fractionation complex. TLLP processes gas for certain producers under “keep-whole” processing agreements. Under a keep-whole agreement, a producer transfers title to the NGLs produced during gas processing, and the processor, in exchange, delivers to the producer natural gas with a BTU content equivalent to the NGLs removed. The operating margin for these agreements is determined by the spread between NGL sales prices and the price paid to purchase the replacement natural gas (“Shrink Gas”). Tesoro entered into a five-year agreement with TLLP, which substantially transfers the commodity risk exposure associated with these keep-whole processing agreements from TLLP to Tesoro (the “Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement”). Under the Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement with Tesoro, Tesoro pays TLLP a fee to process NGLs related to keep-whole agreements and delivers Shrink Gas to the producers on behalf of TLLP. TLLP pays Tesoro a marketing fee in exchange for assuming the commodity risk.

Terms and pricing under this agreement are revised each year. The Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement minimizes the impact for TLLP of commodity price movement during the annual period subsequent to renegotiation of terms and pricing each year. However, the annual fee TLLP charges Tesoro could be impacted as a result of any changes in the spread between NGL sales prices and the price of natural gas.

8
The following table summarizes certain TLLP Processing segment operating information as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Capacity and throughput is measured in MMcf/d for processing complexes and barrels per day for the fractionation complex.

Terminalling and Transportation

TLLP’s Terminalling and Transportation segment consists of:

•25 crude oil and refined products terminals and storage facilities in the western and midwestern U.S. that are supplied by Tesoro-owned and third-party pipelines, trucks and barges;

•four marine terminals in California that load and unload vessels;

•130 miles of pipelines, which transport products and crude oil from Tesoro’s refineries to nearby facilities in Salt Lake City and Los Angeles and a 50% fee interest in a 16-mile pipeline that transports jet fuel from our Los Angeles refinery to the Los Angeles International Airport;

•a regulated common carrier products pipeline running from Salt Lake City, Utah to Spokane, Washington and a jet fuel pipeline to the Salt Lake City International Airport (the “Northwest Products Pipeline”);

•a rail-car unloading facility in Washington that receives crude oil transported on unit trains leased by Tesoro;

•a petroleum coke handling and storage facility in Los Angeles that handles and stores petroleum coke from Tesoro’s Los Angeles refinery; and

•a regulated common carrier refined products pipeline system connecting our Kenai refinery to Anchorage, Alaska.

The following table summarizes certain TLLP terminalling throughput information (in Mbpd) as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes certain TLLP transportation volume information for the year ended December 31, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9
MARKETING

Our Marketing segment sells gasoline and diesel fuel in the western U.S. through branded and unbranded channels. Our branded operations include transportation fuel sales through retail stations and agreements with third-party dealers and distributors (or “Jobber/Dealers”). Our unbranded, or wholesale, business includes volumes sold through agreements with third-party Jobber/Dealers. Our branded and unbranded channels provide a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries. The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state included in our Marketing segment’s branded network of retail stations under the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM, RebelTM and Tesoro® brands as of December 31, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Other states include Colorado, Iowa, New Mexico, Oregon, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming.

COMPETITION

The refining industry is highly competitive and includes a number of companies that have greater financial and other resources, including proprietary crude oil supplies. We obtain all of our crude oil from third-party sources and compete in the world market for the crude oil and feedstocks we process, and for the customers who purchase refined products. The availability and cost of crude oil and other feedstocks, as well as the prices of the products we produce, are heavily influenced by global supply and demand dynamics.

We compete with other refiners and with importers for customers in most of our market areas including sales of our distillate production through wholesale and bulk channels. Competition and concentrations specific to each of our refineries are as follows:

•Our Martinez, Los Angeles and Anacortes refineries compete with several refiners in the U.S., Canada and throughout the Pacific Rim.

•Our Kenai refinery competes with two other in-state refineries along with refineries on the West Coast and in Asia. Our jet fuel sales in Alaska are concentrated in Anchorage, where we are one of the principal suppliers at the Anchorage International Airport.

•Our mid-continent refineries in Mandan, North Dakota and Salt Lake City, Utah compete with supplies provided from refineries in surrounding states and pipeline supply from the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions.

We sell gasoline through our network of branded retail stations as well as on an unbranded, or wholesale, and bulk basis. Our marketing operations compete with other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. We sell gasoline and diesel in western and midwestern states through a network of retail stations, including MSOs, and branded and unbranded Jobber/Dealers. Competitive factors that affect retail marketing include product price, station appearance, location, convenience and brand awareness. Large national retailers as well as regional retailers continue to grow their retail fuel business.

10
TLLP’s gathering business competes with a number of transportation, midstream, and trucking companies for the gathering and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, as applicable, in the areas in which they operate. TLLP’s gathering business competes for opportunities to build gathering lines from producers or other pipeline companies, to provide accessible and flexible service to producers, and facilitate the transportation of crude oil and natural gas to applicable markets. In processing, TLLP competes with midstream companies and producers primarily based on reputation, commercial terms, reliability, service levels, flexibility, access to markets, location, available capacity, capital expenditures and fuel efficiencies. TLLP’s terminalling and transportation business competes predominately with independent terminal and pipeline companies, integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms. Competition in particular geographic areas is affected primarily by the volumes of refined products produced by refineries located in those areas, the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to those areas from refineries located in other areas.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LEGISLATION

Regulatory Controls and Expenditures

Like other companies engaged in similar businesses, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, regional and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the environment, including those governing emissions or discharges to land, air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination. While we believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current requirements, we will continue to engage in efforts to meet new legislative and regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. For example:

•The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has promulgated multiple regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions under the Federal Clean Air Act. The first of these regulations, finalized on April 1, 2010, set standards for the control of greenhouse gas emissions from light trucks and cars. The U.S. Congress may also consider legislation regarding greenhouse gas emissions in the future.

•The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 mandates the blending of increasing amounts of renewable fuels in the supply of transportation fuels used domestically. This use of renewable fuels is required of all manufacturers and importers of transportation fuels sold domestically. The EPA implemented the second renewable fuel standard (“RFS2”) through regulation and RFS2 requires transportation fuel manufacturers to provide proof of purchase of these renewable fuels. The costs associated with RFS2 compliance are uncertain and fluctuate with market dynamics.

•The EPA adopted a new rule in 2015 requiring further reductions in the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”) for ozone.

•The DOT issued new regulations in 2015 governing the design of rail cars used to transport petroleum and other materials.

•In California, Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”), created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. AB 32 also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020.

•In California, the Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District passed amendments to the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (“RECLAIM”) on December 4, 2015. The RECLAIM Amendments become effective in 2016 and require a staged reduction of Nitrogen Oxides through 2022.

•In California, pre-rulemaking is underway to implement the recommendations made in 2014 by the Governor’s Interagency Refinery Safety Working Group.

The impact of these and other regulatory and legislative developments is likely to result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture. Depending on market conditions, we may attempt to pass these costs on to consumers. If that is not possible, the changes could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We cannot currently determine the amounts of such future impacts. For additional information regarding our environmental matters see “Environmental and Other Matters” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.

11
Oil Spill Prevention and Response

We operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters, where tanker, pipeline, rail cars and other petroleum product transportation operations are regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. The transportation of crude oil and refined products involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related state requirements, which require that most petroleum refining, transport and storage companies maintain and update various oil spill prevention and oil spill contingency plans. Our spill prevention plans and procedures are frequently reviewed and modified to prevent releases and to minimize potential impacts to land and water should a release occur. We have submitted these plans and received federal and state approvals necessary to comply with the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related regulations. At our facilities adjacent to water, federally certified Oil Spill Response Organizations (“OSROs”) are available to respond to a spill on water from above ground storage tanks or pipelines. We have contracts in place to ensure support from the respective OSROs for spills in both open and inland waters, as well as on land.

We currently charter tankers to ship crude oil from foreign and domestic sources to our California, Washington and Alaska refineries. The tanker owners contract with OSROs to comply with federal, state and local requirements, except in Alaska where we contract with the OSROs. The OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill equal to the greatest tanker volume delivering crude oil to our refineries. Those volumes range from 350,000 barrels to two million barrels.

We have entered into spill-response contracts with various OSROs to provide spill-response services, if required, to respond to a spill of oil originating from our facilities. We have spill-response agreements in Alaska with Cook Inlet Spill Prevention and Response, Incorporated and with Alyeska Pipeline Service Company. We also have entered into contracts with Marine Spill Response Corporation for the San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach, and the Clean Rivers Cooperative, Inc. for the Columbia River, and Bay West, Inc. in our Mid-Continent region. These OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill on water equal to the greatest volume above ground storage tank at our facilities or pipelines. Those volumes range from 50,000 to 600,000 barrels. We also contract with one spill-response organization outside the U.S. to support our shipments in foreign waters. In addition, we contract with various spill-response specialists to ensure appropriate expertise is available for any contingency. We believe these contracts provide the additional services necessary to meet or exceed all regulatory spill-response requirements and support our commitment to environmental stewardship.

The OSROs are rated and certified by the U.S. Coast Guard and are required to annually demonstrate their response capability to the U.S. Coast Guard and state agencies. The OSROs rated and certified to respond to open water spills must demonstrate the capability to recover up to 50,000 barrels of oil per day and store up to 100,000 barrels of recovered oil at any given time. The OSROs rated and certified to respond to inland spills must demonstrate the capability to recover from 1,875 to 7,500 barrels of oil per day and store from 3,750 to 15,000 barrels of recovered oil at any given time. We maintain our own spill-response resources to mitigate the impact of a spill from a tanker at our refineries until an OSRO can deploy its resources. Our spill response capability meets the U.S. Coast Guard and state requirements to either deploy on-water containment equipment two and one-half times the length of a vessel at our dock or have smaller vessels available to recover 50 barrels of oil per day and store 100 barrels of recovered oil at any given time.

The services provided by the OSROs principally consist of operating response-related equipment, managing certain aspects of a response and providing technical expertise. The OSROs provide various resources in response to an oil spill. The resources include dedicated vessels that have skimming equipment to recover oil, storage barges to temporarily store recovered oil, containment boom to control the spread of oil on water and land and to protect shorelines, and various pumps and other equipment supporting oil recovery efforts and the protection of natural resources. The OSROs have full-time personnel and contract with third parties to provide additional personnel when needed.

As a general matter, our agreements with these organizations do not contain specific physical or financial limitations. General physical limitations of these organizations would include the geographical area for which services are available and the amount of resources available at the initiation of a request for services or the duration of response and recovery efforts.

Additionally, we require all tankers and barges engaged in moving crude oil, heavy and finished products to be double hulled. All vessels used by us to transport crude oil and refined products over water are examined or evaluated and subject to our approval prior to their use.

12
Rail Car Safety

Tesoro maintains a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and support our refining operations. Generally, rail operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. During 2015, Tesoro started taking delivery of 210 enhanced DOT120J200 tank cars for crude oil service. These cars exceed the new federal standards issued by the DOT on May 1, 2015. The new DOT regulations allow for an orderly phase out or retrofit of previous generation rail cars. Tesoro will continue to comply with all regulatory requirements and order only new rail cars that are among the safest and most robust available at the time of order. TLLP rail operations are limited to loading and unloading rail cars at its facilities. TLLP believes its entire rail car loading and unloading operations meet or exceed all applicable regulations.

Pipeline Safety

Our pipelines, gathering systems and terminal operations, including those owned by TLLP, are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of refined products, natural gas and crude oil involve a risk that hazardous liquids may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. The DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and state agencies, enforce safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline and storage facilities.

Regulation of Pipelines

Operations on portions of our pipelines are regulated by state agencies in Alaska and California. In addition, TLLP owns and operates crude oil, refined product and natural gas pipelines, which are common carriers regulated by various federal, state and local agencies. The FERC regulates interstate transportation on TLLP’s High Plains System, Northwest Products Pipeline and natural gas pipeline under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws.

Federal regulation of interstate pipelines extends to such matters as rates, services, and terms and conditions of service; the types of services offered to customers; the certification and construction of new facilities; the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; the maintenance of accounts and records; relationships between affiliated companies; the initiation and continuation of services; market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of commodities; and participation by interstate pipelines in cash management arrangements.

The intrastate operation of TLLP’s Alaska pipeline is regulated by the Regulatory Commission of Alaska. The state regulatory authorities require that we notify shippers of proposed tariff increases to provide the shippers an opportunity to protest the increases. In addition to challenges to new or proposed rates, challenges to existing intrastate rates are permitted by complaint of an interested person or by independent action of the appropriate regulatory authority. The intrastate operations of TLLP’s High Plains System in North Dakota are regulated by the North Dakota Public Service Commission. Applicable state law requires that pipelines operate as common carriers, that access to transportation services and pipeline rates be non-discriminatory, that if more crude oil is offered for transportation than can be transported immediately the crude oil volumes transported be apportioned equitably and that pipeline rates be just and reasonable.

WORKING CAPITAL

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving lines of credit are available for additional working capital needs. For additional information regarding working capital see the “Capital Resources and Liquidity” section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7.

EMPLOYEES

We had more than 6,000 full-time employees at December 31, 2015, approximately 2,100 of whom are full-time represented union employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. The agreements for approximately 1,750 of these employees will expire on March 1, 2017, the agreements for approximately 90 of these employees will expire on February 1, 2019, and the agreements for the remaining represented employees expire on May 1, 2019.

13
WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

Our principal executive offices are located at 19100 Ridgewood Parkway, San Antonio, Texas 78259-1828 and our telephone number is (210) 626-6000. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TSO. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports from time to time. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and our website at http://www.tsocorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may receive a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements, free of charge by writing to Tesoro Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 19100 Ridgewood Parkway, San Antonio, Texas 78259-1828. We also post our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct, code of business conduct and ethics for senior financial executives and our Board of Directors committee charters on our website.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages and their positions at Tesoro, effective as of February 18, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as officers. Officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors (the “Board”) in conjunction with the annual meeting of stockholders. The term of each office runs until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a successor has been elected or qualified. Positions held for at least the past five years for each of our executive officers are described below (positions, unless otherwise specified, are with Tesoro).

Gregory J. Goff was named President and Chief Executive Officer in May 2010 and assumed additional responsibilities as Chairman of our Board of Directors in December 2014. Mr. Goff also serves as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC (“TLGP”), the general partner of TLLP. Since March 2015, Mr. Goff has served as Chairman of the Board of the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers. Before joining Tesoro, he has served as Senior Vice President, Commercial for ConocoPhillips Corporation (“ConocoPhillips”), an international, integrated energy company, from 2008 until 2010. Mr. Goff held various other positions at ConocoPhillips beginning in 1981, including President of ConocoPhillips specialty businesses and business development from 2006 to 2008; President of ConocoPhillips U.S. Lower 48 and Latin America exploration and production business from 2004 to 2006; President of ConocoPhillips Europe and Asia Pacific downstream from 2002 to 2004; Chairman and Managing Director of Conoco Limited, a UK-based refining and marketing affiliate, from 2000 to 2002; and director and CEO of Conoco JET Nordic from 1998 to 2000.

Keith M. Casey was named Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2014. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development beginning in April 2013. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Casey served as Vice President, BP Products North America, Texas City Refinery beginning in September 2006.

Charles S. Parrish was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2009. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary beginning in May 2006; Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary beginning in March 2005 and as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary beginning in November 2004. Mr. Parrish also serves as Vice President and General Counsel of TLGP.

14
Steven M. Sterin was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2014. Mr. Sterin also serves as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TLGP. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Sterin held financial leadership positions, including service as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Celanese Corporation from July 2007 until May 2014.

Cynthia J. Warner was named Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development in October 2014. Before joining Tesoro, Mrs. Warner served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Sapphire Energy beginning in 2009.

Daryl R. Schofield was named Senior Vice President, Commercial in March 2014. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Crude Strategy and Trading beginning in August 2013. Before joining Tesoro, Mr. Schofield served three years as Vice President, Head of Global Marketing and Commercial Midstream and A&D, at Talisman Energy.

Tracy D. Jackson was named Vice President and Controller of both Tesoro and TLGP in March 2015. Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Analytics and Financial Planning of Tesoro Companies Inc. (“TCI”), a subsidiary of Tesoro, from September 2013 through February 2015. From February 2011 to February 2014, Ms. Jackson served as Vice President and Treasurer of Tesoro, and assumed such role for our general partner from April 2012 until February 2014. Ms. Jackson also served as Treasurer of TCI, beginning November 2010 through February 2014. From May 2007 until November 2010, Ms. Jackson served as Vice President of Internal Audit of TCI.

Brad S. Lakhia was named Vice President and Treasurer of both Tesoro and TLGP in July 2014. Before joining Tesoro, Mr. Lakhia served as Senior Director - Business Development starting in December 2012 at The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (“Goodyear”). Prior to December 2012, Mr. Lakhia held financial leadership positions at Goodyear, including Finance Director - ASEAN from July 2010 to December 2012 and Vice President - Finance, Global Procurement from September 2009 to July 2010.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is a list of our Board of Directors, effective as of February 18, 2016:

Rodney F. ChaseChairman of the Audit Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Director of Hess Corporation

Gregory J. GoffChairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Corporation and Chairman of the Board of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC; Director of Polyone Corporation

Robert W. Goldman

Former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Conoco, Inc.; 

Director of BWX Technologies, Inc.; Director of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC; Director of FRG Development Company

David LilleyChairman of the Compensation Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cytec Industries Inc.; Director of Rockwell Collins, Inc. and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated

Mary Pat McCarthyFormer Vice Chairman, KPMG LLP; Director of Mutual of Omaha

J.W. NokesChairman of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Security Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Retired Executive Vice President for ConocoPhillips; Director of Post Oak Bank, N.A. (Houston, Texas); Non-Executive Chairman of Albemarle Corporation

Susan TomaskyLead Director and Chairman of the Governance Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Former President of AEP Transmission, a division of American Electric Power Company, Inc.; Director of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Summit Midstream Partners GP, LLC

Michael E. WileyRetired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes, Inc.; Director of Bill Barrett Corporation; Director of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC; Director of Post Oak Bank, N.A. (Houston, Texas)

Patrick Y. YangFormer Head of Global Technical Operations for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; Director of Codexis, Inc., Pharma Essentia Corporation and Amyris, Inc.

15
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS