ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following information concerning our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with Business and Properties in Part I, Items 1 and 2, respectively, and our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis is the company’s analysis of its financial performance, financial condition and significant trends that may affect future performance. It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. It contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements relating to the company’s plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “budget,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “seek,” “predict,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “outlook,” “guidance,” “effort,” “target” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking information unless required to do so under the federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company’s disclosures under the heading: “IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.”

BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OVERVIEW

Strategy and Goals

As the leading integrated refining, marketing and logistics company in our strategic foot print, we are driven to create value. We underpin our approach to our value creation by driving business improvements and an enduring commitment to execution. Across all of our businesses, we seek to leverage a highly integrated business model to achieve our vision through the following strategic priorities:

•Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness - continuously improving safety, compliance, reliability, system improvements and cost leadership;

•Value Chain Optimization - enhancing margin capture through our supply and trading activities, optimization of our integrated businesses and customer focus;

•Financial Discipline - maintaining a strong financial position by exercising capital discipline and focusing on a balanced use of free cash flow;

•Value-Driven Growth - extending our capabilities and growing earnings through growth in our logistics and marketing businesses and other strategic opportunities accretive to shareholder value; and

•High Performing Culture - fostering a performance-based culture that is committed to building leadership at all levels of the organization and across our value chain with employees from diverse backgrounds and experiences who are accountable for delivering on our commitments.

We take a principle-based approach to conducting our business seeking to create shared value for key stakeholders such as employees, communities, business partners, government, and the environment. We believe our value chain creates a competitive advantage by maximizing business integration across our different regions through the combination of refining, marketing and logistics assets. Our marketing assets provide a secure and ratable offtake of high value gasoline and diesel production from our refineries, our logistics assets and in-region placement allow us to minimize transportation costs and maximize our overall performance. Our waterborne and land-based logistics assets enable system optimization across our businesses and between our regions. TLLP’s gathering logistics assets also allow us to capture integrated crude oil and natural gas commercial opportunities in the mid-continent basins.

28
Our goals were focused on these strategic priorities and we accomplished the following during 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

While we achieved these significant accomplishments during 2015, the Company experienced several unexpected and unplanned events that negatively impacted our business results. Our results include the impact of the work stoppage in February and March of 2015, a period of reduced run-rates at our Salt Lake City refinery following the completion of the expansion project in the second quarter of 2015 and unplanned downtime of multiple FCC units across our West Coast refineries in December, which reduced throughput and increased operating costs.

29
Synergy and Business Improvement Objectives

In December 2014, we laid out our plans to deliver an additional $550 to $670 million of annual improvements during 2015. These improvements are in addition to what was delivered in 2014 and include $95 to $125 million from delivering West Coast improvements, $130 to $170 million from capturing margin improvements, and $325 to $375 million by growing our logistics operations. During 2015, we estimate that we delivered approximately $670 million towards our ongoing focus to improve gross margin and manage our costs to drive improvement in operating income. This includes about $350 million related to West Coast improvements and capturing margin improvements. We delivered approximately $320 million from growing our logistics operations, which includes contributions from the Rockies Natural Gas Business. These initiatives focus on improving capture rates and managing our costs to drive improvements in operating income. These improvements are measured against original assumptions utilized in our planning cycle either for our annual business plan or at the time we approve a capital project. Our 2015 achievements included the following:

•Benefited from Los Angeles improvements including:

◦Crude optimizations from sourcing new crudes;

◦Crude blending capabilities at the Carson crude terminal that resulted in higher throughput volumes;

◦New cargo sharing with our Martinez refinery;

◦Improved pipeline connectivity between the Los Angeles refinery sites; and

◦West Coast integration of naphtha and gasoline blendstocks.

•Re-distributed in-bound crude oil to our Kenai refinery during maintenance and turnaround activities at our Anacortes refinery to optimize our west coast system; and

•Completed the second phase of the Salt Lake City Refinery Expansion project.

Our plans, as presented in December 2015, are to deliver an additional $900 million to $1.1 billion of annual improvements during 2016. These improvements are in addition to what was delivered in 2015 and include $400 to $500 million from business improvements across our segments and $500 to $600 million from higher utilization and capture.

30
Current Market Conditions

Domestic. The markets in which we operate have continued to experience volatility, with the price of crude oil dropping 30% over 2015 and nearly 18% in the fourth quarter of 2015. Slowing growth in domestic U.S. crude oil production, supply outages, changing logistical infrastructure as well as improving domestic macroeconomic conditions have influenced all portions of our business. Supply of refined products to the West Coast market has been impacted this year by work stoppages and several unplanned outages at refineries, including some at our facilities. During this same time period, lower gasoline and energy prices, along with improving employment have led to higher domestic demand in the West Coast regions. These factors have helped create an above average margin environment in our regions. During the fourth quarter, we saw crude oil price volatility continue due to multiple factors including weak global demand, continued supply growth outside the U.S. and political factors within the U.S., namely the lifting of the crude export ban. All of these events resulted in narrowing of U.S. domestic crude differentials compared to similar world markets. Weaker seasonal product demand in the fourth quarter resulted in lower margins than the third quarter, but continued growth in West Coast gasoline demand and local supply disruptions brought about higher than normal margins in our West Coast regions for the fourth quarter. Gasoline margins were better than typically seen in the fourth quarter on growth in U.S. demand, while distillate margins were lower due to global oversupply and slowing growth in both domestic and emerging economies. We continue to monitor the impact of these changes in market prices and fundamentals on our business including values recognized in connection with the recently acquired Rockies Natural Gas Business.

Global. The global energy markets have also experienced volatility due to fluctuations in growth in the developing regions of the world, which saw economic stagnation during 2015 with some countries seeing economic slowdown. The market for crude oil, natural gas and refined products is affected by changes in economic conditions and the associated supply and demand balance changes. Product values and crude oil prices are set by the market and are outside our control. We expect global market conditions to drive continued volatility in our markets.

Tesoro Logistics LP

TLLP was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets to gather crude oil and natural gas, to distribute, transport and store crude oil and refined products, and to process and fractionate natural gas and NGLs. Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC (“TLGP”), a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary, serves as the general partner of TLLP. We held an approximate 36% interest in TLLP at December 31, 2015, including a 2% general partner interest and all of the incentive distribution rights. In 2015, 55% of TLLP’s revenue was derived from us primarily under various long-term, fee-based commercial agreements that generally include minimum volume commitments.

TLLP’s strategy remains to grow earnings through four ways that have remained constant since its 2011 initial public offering:

•Focusing on stable, fee-based business;

•Optimizing our existing asset base;

•Pursuing organic expansion opportunities; and

•Continued growth through strategic acquisitions.

By achieving this growth and through our ownership of TLLP’s general partner, we expect the logistics operations to maximize the integrated value of assets within the midstream and downstream value chain. This includes creating shareholder value through the lower cost of capital available to TLLP as a limited partnership and receipt of TLLP’s quarterly distributions. As the distributions per unit increase, our proportion of the total distribution will grow at an accelerated rate due to our incentive distribution rights. We believe TLLP is well positioned to achieve its primary business objectives and execute business strategies based on its long-term fee-based contracts, relationship with us, assets positioned in the Bakken and Rockies regions and its financial flexibility provided by its balanced capital structure, available revolving credit facility capacity, new dropdown credit facility, ability to access equity capital markets through its continuous issuance program and financial support from us. Refer to the “Capital Resource and Liquidity” section for further discussion of resources available to TLLP.

31
Relative to these goals, during 2015, TLLP accomplished the following (refer to Notes 3 and 13 in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information):

•expanded its assets on its gathering and transportation system, located in the Bakken Region (the “High Plains System”) in support of growing third-party demand for transportation services and Tesoro’s demand for Bakken crude oil in the mid-continent and west coast refining systems, including:

◦further expanded capacity and capability of its common carrier pipeline in North Dakota and Montana;

◦expanded its gathering footprint in the Bakken region, including crude oil, natural gas and water, to enhance and improve overall basin logistic efficiencies;

◦added other origin and destination points on the High Plains System to increase volumes; and

◦improved utilization of its proprietary truck fleet, which should generate cost and operating efficiencies.

•increased its terminalling volumes by expanding capacity and growing its third-party services at certain of its terminals;

•optimized Tesoro volumes and grow third-party volumes using its terminalling and transportation assets;

•completed the integration, expanded and optimized its natural gas gathering and processing assets;

•completed the Connolly Gathering System major growth project, which has a capacity of approximately 60 Mbpd; and

•closed the acquisition of crude oil and refined product storage and pipeline assets in Los Angeles, California (the "LA Storage and Handling Assets") owned by subsidiaries of Tesoro, for a total consideration of $500 million. TLLP acquired a crude oil, feedstock and refined product storage tank facility with combined capacity of 6.6 million barrels and a 50% interest in a 16-mile pipeline that transports jet fuel from Tesoro's Los Angeles refinery to the Los Angeles International Airport.

Total market value of TLLP units held by Tesoro was $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2015, Tesoro held 32,445,115 common units at a market value of $50.32 per unit based on the closing unit price as of that date. At December 31, 2014, Tesoro held 28,181,748 common units at a market value of $58.85 per unit based on the closing unit price as of that date. Cash distributions received from TLLP, including incentive distribution rights, is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity Issuances. On August 24, 2015, TLLP filed a prospectus supplement to its shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 6, 2015, authorizing the continuous issuance of up to an aggregate of $750 million of common units, in amounts, at prices and on terms to be determined by market conditions and other factors at the time of its offerings. Prior to that, TLLP had authorization under $200 million program filed under a prospectus supplement filed on June 25, 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2015, TLLP issued an aggregate of 1,957,046 common units under both continuous issuance programs generating proceeds of approximately $105 million before issuance costs. The net proceeds from issuances under these programs were used for general partnership purposes, which included debt repayment, future acquisitions, capital expenditures and additions to working capital.

Vancouver Energy

Consistent with our strategic priorities to drive value chain optimization and capture value-driven growth, we entered into a joint venture in 2013 with Savage Companies to construct, own and operate a unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at Port of Vancouver, USA (the “Vancouver Energy” terminal) with a total capacity of 360 Mbpd allowing for the delivery of cost-advantaged North American crude oil to the U.S. West Coast. The entire project scope is estimated to cost $210 million. While there is the potential that additional scope changes may result from the final Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council (“EFSEC”) review, we do not expect those changes will be material to the estimated costs.

32
The project is progressing through the EFSEC permitting process in the state of Washington. EFSEC released the Draft Environmental Impact Statement in November 2015 and has begun the adjudicative phase with the adjudicative hearing set for the summer of 2016. We expect EFSEC will submit its recommendation to the governor of Washington once it completes the adjudicative phase. The joint venture will begin construction of the facilities upon the governor’s approval of the project and issuance of permits. Project construction is estimated to take nine to twelve months, however initial operations are expected to begin within a few months of construction start.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

A discussion and analysis of the factors contributing to our results of operations is presented below. The accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, together with the following information, are intended to provide investors with a reasonable basis for assessing our historical operations, but should not serve as the only criteria for predicting our future performance.

Non-GAAP Measures

Our management uses a variety of financial and operating metrics to analyze operating segment performance. To supplement our financial information presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, our management uses additional metrics that are known as “non-GAAP” financial metrics in its evaluation of past performance and prospects for the future. These metrics are significant factors in assessing our operating results and profitability and include earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses (“EBITDA”). We define EBITDA as consolidated earnings, including earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, excluding net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, before depreciation and amortization expense, net interest and financing costs and income taxes. We define adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA plus or minus amounts determined to be “special items” by our management based on their unusual nature and relative significance to earnings (loss) in a certain period. We provide complete reconciliation and discussion of items identified as special items with our presentation of adjusted EBITDA.

We present EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA because we believe some investors and analysts use EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to help analyze our cash flows including our ability to satisfy principal and interest obligations with respect to our indebtedness and use cash for other purposes, including capital expenditures. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are also used by some investors and analysts to analyze and compare companies on the basis of operating performance and by management for internal analysis. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as alternatives to U.S. GAAP net earnings or net cash from operating activities. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA have important limitations as analytical tools, because they exclude some, but not all, items that affect net earnings and net cash from operating activities.

Items Impacting Comparability

Our branded marketing operations represented the assets and operations that were previously shown as the retail segment. In previous periods, a portion of our marketing business related to sales in unbranded or wholesale channels that were presented within our refining operating segment. Upon considering the changes in our business including the transition from company-owned retail operations to a multi-site operator model, we assessed how our chief operating decision maker evaluates the business, assesses performance and allocates resources. From this analysis, we believed the presentation of a marketing segment inclusive of both unbranded and branded marketing operations was appropriate. As of the second quarter 2015, we revised our operating segments to include refining, TLLP and a realigned marketing segment. Comparable prior period information has been recast to reflect our revised segment presentation. No other changes were deemed necessary to our refining and TLLP segments.

The TLLP financial and operational data presented include the historical results of all assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the acquisition dates. The acquisitions from Tesoro were transfers between entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial information of TLLP contained herein has been retrospectively adjusted to include the historical results of the assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the effective date of each acquisition for all periods presented and do not include revenue for transactions with Tesoro with the exception of regulatory tariffs on its pipeline assets. The TLLP financial data is derived from the combined financial results of the TLLP predecessor (the “TLLP Predecessor”). We refer to the TLLP Predecessor and, prior to each acquisition date, the acquisitions from Tesoro collectively, as “TLLP’s Predecessors.”

TLLP acquired assets related to the Rockies Natural Gas Business on December 2, 2014, which is engaged in natural gas gathering, transportation and processing in or around the Green River Basin located in Wyoming and Colorado, the Uinta Basin located in eastern Utah, and the Bakken region located in North Dakota.

33
On September 25, 2013, we completed the sale of all of our interest in Tesoro Hawaii, LLC, which operated a 94 Mbpd Hawaii refinery, retail stations and associated logistics assets (the “Hawaii Business”). We have reflected its results of operations as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented, and, unless otherwise noted, we have excluded the Hawaii Business from the financial and operational data presented in the tables and discussion that follow.

Certain 2014 financial information has been revised to conform with current year presentation. In addition, certain 2014 and 2013 EBITDA financial information has been revised to conform with EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA presentation disclosed by TLLP on a standalone basis.

Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
35
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)For a definition of EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, see discussion above.

(b)Special items included in EBITDA but excluded for presentation of adjusted EBITDA consist of the following (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(f)Includes a refund and settlement from a crude pipeline network rate case settlement of $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, partially offset by accruals of $15 million for the resolution of certain legal matters. A $16 million benefit related to the release of a legal reserve as a result of a favorable litigation settlement and $54 million in refunds from the settlement of a rate proceeding from the California Public Utilities Commission are included for the year ended December 31, 2013.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
Consolidated Results

Selected consolidated operating data and results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]________________

(a)Sources of total refined product sales include refined products manufactured at our refineries and refined products purchased from third parties. Total refined product sales margins include margins on sales of manufactured and purchased refined products.

(b)Average refined product sales price include all sales through our marketing segment as well as in bulk markets and exports through our refining segment. Average costs of sales and related sales margins include amounts recognized for the sale of refined products manufactured at our refineries along with the sale of refined products purchased from third parties to help fulfill supply commitments.

2015 Compared to 2014

Overview. Our net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Tesoro Corporation in 2015 were $1.5 billion, or $12.39 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $872 million, or $6.67 per diluted share in 2014 due primarily to the $3.05 per barrel increase in our refined product sales margin and lower operating expenses.

Gross Margins. Our gross refining margin increased $689 million during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily driven by a stronger margin environment across the California and Pacific Northwest regions. The increases in gross refining margin were driven by an increase of $3.95 in our gross refining margin per barrel partially offset by the impact of the work stoppages and three refinery turnarounds during 2015 as well as the net lower of cost or market inventory adjustments of $317 million for 2015 compared to $42 million for 2014. With a continued volatile price environment, the impact of our lower of cost of market adjustment can vary and may increase in the future. TLLP revenues, net of operating expenses, increased $366 million due to higher throughput volumes driven by a full year of operations from the Rockies Natural Gas Business and other acquired assets and continued expansion of its crude oil gathering assets. Our gross marketing margin increased $296 million primarily driven by favorable market conditions and strong demand.

Other Costs and Expenses. Operating expenses decreased $142 million to $2.3 billion in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to declining natural gas costs and the conversion of company-operated retail sites to multi-site operators (“MSOs”) that reduced costs associated with the management of station operations partially offset by increased expenses from a full year of operations from the Rockies Natural Gas Business. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $194 million to $756 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to depreciation and amortization associated with the Rockies Natural Gas Business and new assets placed into service. Loss on asset disposals and impairments for 2015 include various projects that were discontinued due to their lack of economic viability given the current market environment.

Interest and financing costs, net.  Interest and financing costs decreased approximately $18 million to $217 million during 2015 from $235 million during 2014. The decrease consisted primarily of financing transactions that occurred in 2014 that did not have a comparable transaction in 2015. These transactions include a $39 million charge for premiums paid, unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts related to the redemption of the 9.750% Senior Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) and TLLP 5.875% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “TLLP 2020 Notes”) in 2014 as well as bridge fees in connection with TLLP’s Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. These decreases were partially offset by a full year of incremental interest on TLLP’s 5.500% Senior Notes due 2019 (the “TLLP 2019 Notes”) and TLLP’s 6.250% Senior Notes due 2022 (the “TLLP 2022 Notes”).

37
Other Income. Other income during 2015 included a gain for an insurance settlement of $11 million related to the Washington Refinery Fire. In 2014, other income included a refund and settlement from a crude pipeline network rate case settlement of $59 million.

Income Tax Expense. Our income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $936 million in 2015 versus $547 million in 2014. The combined federal and state effective income tax rate was 35.6% and 37.4% during 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase to income tax expense is attributable to the increase in earnings before income taxes. Compared to 2014, the 2015 rate included an increased share of income from non-taxable noncontrolling interests attributable to TLLP.

Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax. Losses from discontinued operations related to the Hawaii Business, net of tax, were $4 million in 2015, compared to $29 million in 2014. The loss in 2014 primarily related to $42 million in charges related to regulatory improvements we are obligated to make at the at the Hawaii refinery to resolve the Clean Air Act matters discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The loss in 2015 is related to a change in estimate for the regulatory improvements we are required to make.

2014 Compared to 2013

Overview. Our net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Tesoro Corporation in 2014 were $872 million ($6.67 per diluted share) compared with net earnings of $392 million ($2.85 per diluted share) in 2013 primarily due to a full year of earnings from assets acquired in the Los Angeles Acquisition on June 1, 2013, and an improved margin environment in 2014.

Gross Margins. Our gross refining margin increased $914 million during 2014 compared to 2013 primarily driven by higher refined product sales volumes resulting from full year operations of our integrated Southern California refining, marketing and logistics business acquired in the Los Angeles Acquisition. The increase was further improved by an increase of $1.51 in our gross refining margin per barrel during 2014 due to a stronger margin environment throughout most of 2014. The increases in refining gross margin during 2014 were partially offset by a $42 million lower of cost or market adjustment related to inventory given the lower commodity price environment we experienced during the second half of 2014. Our marketing gross margin increased $372 million due to higher fuel margins as well as higher fuel sales volumes resulting from our expanded retail network. TLLP revenues, net of operating expenses, increased by $194 million due to higher throughput volumes driven by acquired assets and continued expansion of its crude oil gathering and terminalling assets.

Other Costs and Expenses. Operating expenses increased $509 million, or 27%, to $2.4 billion in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to a full year of operations of the assets acquired in the Los Angeles Acquisition. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $73 million due to increased depreciation expense associated with assets acquired with the Los Angeles Acquisition.

Interest and Financing Costs, Net. Interest and financing costs increased approximately $86 million to $235 million during 2014 from $149 million during 2013. The increase consisted primarily of a $39 million charge for premiums paid, unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts related to the redemption of the 2019 Notes and TLLP 2020 Notes in 2014. Additionally, incremental interest expense of $32 million was incurred during 2014 compared to 2013 associated with the TLLP 2020 Notes and TLLP’s 6.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “TLLP 2021 Notes”) issued during the second half of 2013. TLLP used these borrowings to finance its acquisition of logistics assets from us that we acquired in connection with the Los Angeles Acquisition. Further increases of $28 million resulted from the issuance of the TLLP 2019 Notes, the TLLP 2022 Notes and related bridge fees in connection with TLLP’s Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. During 2014, our interest costs reflected a net savings compared to 2013 of $10 million as a result of refinancing the 2019 Notes with the 5.125% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”) in March 2014.

Other Income. Other income during 2014 included a refund and settlement from a crude pipeline network rate case settlement of $59 million that was comparable in amount to a refund from the settlement of a rate proceeding from the California Public Utilities Commission of $54 million during 2013. Additionally, 2013 included the release of a $16 million legal reserve as a result of a favorable settlement of litigation.

Income Tax Expense. Our income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $547 million in 2014 versus $246 million in 2013. The combined federal and state effective income tax rate was 37.4% and 36.2% during 2014 and 2013, respectively. Compared to 2013, the 2014 rate included a reduced share of income from non-taxable noncontrolling interests attributable to TLLP.

38
Earnings (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax. Losses from discontinued operations related to the Hawaii Business, net of tax, were $29 million in 2014, compared to earnings of $20 million in 2013. The loss in 2014 primarily related to $42 million in charges related to regulatory improvements we are obligated to make at the Hawaii refinery to resolve the Clean Air Act matters discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The earnings in 2013 included an $81 million gain on the sale of the Hawaii Business, which included a $17 million curtailment gain related to the remeasurement of our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.

Refining Segment

We currently own and operate six petroleum refineries located in the western United States and sell transportation fuels to a wide variety of customers. Our refineries produce the majority of the transportation fuels that we sell. Our six refineries have a combined crude oil capacity of 875 Mbpd. We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources, including the Middle East, South America, western Africa, Canada, and other locations either in the spot market or through term agreements with renewal provisions. Our marketing segment, including its branded retail network, provides a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in bulk and opportunistically export refined products to certain foreign markets.

Market Overview. Results from our refining segment are heavily influenced by our gross refining margin and refinery throughputs. The gross refining margin is the difference between the prices of all manufactured refined products sold and the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks used to produce refined products, including the cost of transportation and distribution. The market for crude oil and products is affected by changes in economic conditions and supply and demand balance. Product values and crude oil prices are set by the market and are outside of our control. When evaluating the markets in which we operate, we utilize the U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) and other industry sources, to gather supply, demand, utilization, import and export information to forecast and monitor market conditions for our operating regions. We focus on PADD V, or the West Coast of the U.S. where the majority of our operations are located. PADD V is defined by the Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts (“PADD”) as the states of Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Oregon and Washington.

As a performance benchmark and a comparison with other industry participants, we utilize the West Coast and Mid-Continent crack spreads. The crack spread is a measure of the difference between market prices for crude oil and refined products and is a commonly used proxy within the industry to estimate or identify trends in gross refining margins. Crack spreads can fluctuate significantly over time as a result of market conditions and supply and demand balances. The West Coast 321 crack spread is calculated using 3 barrels of Alaska North Slope crude oil (“ANS”) producing 2 barrels of Los Angeles CARB gasoline and 1 barrel of Los Angeles CARB diesel. The Mid-Continent 321 crack spread is calculated using 3 barrels of West Texas Intermediate crude oil (“WTI”) producing 2 barrels of Group 3 gasoline and 1 barrel of Group 3 diesel.

Our actual gross refining margins differ from these crack spreads based on the actual slate of crude oil we run at our refineries and the products we produce. The global commodity markets for crude oil and refined products are subject to significant volatility resulting in rapidly changing prices and margin environments. Our refineries process a variety of crude oils that are sourced from around the world. The slate of crude oil we process can vary over time as a result of changes in market prices and shipping rates. Additionally, our refining gross margin is impacted by the changing crude oil price differentials, which is the difference between the benchmark crude oils, WTI and Brent crude oil (“Brent”), and the actual crude oil we run at our refineries. We may experience financial risk associated with price volatility of crude oil and refined products and we may utilize financial hedge instruments to help mitigate such risks where possible.

The following table provides key information that can be used to monitor our business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Source: PLATTS

West Coast. Average U.S. West Coast crack spreads were up approximately 55.9% in 2015, as compared to 2014 and were down approximately 0.3% for 2014 compared to 2013. The increased crack spreads in 2015 are a result of increased demand year over year along with several extended unplanned refinery outages in PADD V, including our own as discussed below, which reduced West Coast refinery utilization. The EIA reports have noted an increase in PADD V clean product imports to meet the increased demand. 2014 crack spreads were relatively flat compared to 2013, but remained higher in relation to historical average as a result of continued economic expansion on the West Coast and continued growth of PADD V clean product demand.

Mid-Continent. Average Mid-Continent crack spreads were up approximately 10.2% in 2015, compared to 2014 and were down approximately 20.5% in 2014 compared to 2013. While margins have increased in 2015 over 2014, the local crude oil differentials have more than offset this increase. The WTI to Bakken differential has decreased by approximately $3.66 per barrel increasing the price of Bakken, which resulted in a lower gross margin in 2015 compared to 2014. Bakken crude oil represented about 55% of the crude oil consumed by our Mid-Continent system in 2015. The decrease in crack spreads from 2014 to 2013 was as a result of regional growth in overall refining capacity and high utilization supported by the increasing domestic crude oil production and growth in clean product demand.

Operational Data and Results. Management uses various measures to evaluate performance and efficiency and to compare profitability to other companies in the industry. These measures include:

•Gross refining margin per barrel is calculated by dividing gross refining margin (revenues less costs of feedstocks, purchased refined products, transportation and distribution) by total refining throughput;

•Manufacturing costs before depreciation and amortization expense (“Manufacturing Costs”) per barrel is calculated by dividing Manufacturing Costs by total refining throughput:

•We calculate refined product sales margin per barrel by dividing refined product sales margin by total refined product sales (in barrels); and

•Refined product sales margin represents refined product sales less refined product cost of sales.

Investors and analysts use these financial measures to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. These financial measures should not be considered alternatives to segment operating income, revenues, costs of sales and operating expenses or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

39
Our Refining segment operating data are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40
Our Refining segment operating results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Our Refining segment operating results by region are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)We acquired the Carson refinery and related assets on June 1, 2013. The information presented includes the results of operations of these assets from the date of acquisition on June 1, 2013. We continue to integrate the operations of our Wilmington and Carson facilities and refer to the combined facility as the Los Angeles refinery.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014

Overview. Operating income for our refining segment increased $671 million, or 57%, to $1.8 billion in 2015 as compared to 2014 due to a stronger margin environment. Average U.S. West Coast crack spreads margins were approximately $25 per barrel up over $9 per barrel for 2015 compared to 2014. Total refinery utilization was 93% in 2015 as compared to 97% in 2014 primarily as a result of the work stoppage and an increase in our stated overall refining capacity to 875 Mbpd compared to 850 Mbpd in 2014.

Refining Throughput. Total refining throughput decreased 38 Mbpd, or 5%, to 787 Mbpd in 2015 as compared to 825 Mbpd in 2014. The decrease is primarily due to the work stoppage and large planned turnarounds at our Los Angeles and Martinez refineries and project activity at our Salt Lake City refinery. Our California region was most significantly impacted by the work stoppage at our Martinez refinery resulting in it being idled and reduced throughput in the Carson portion of our Los Angeles refinery.

Gross Refining Margins. Our gross refining margin per barrel increased $3.95 per barrel, or 32%, to $16.22 per barrel in 2015 as compared to 2014 given a stronger margin environment across the California and Pacific Northwest regions, which was offset by the impact of work stoppages and three refinery turnarounds during 2015.

42
Total gross refining margin increased $689 million, or 19%, to $4.3 billion in 2015 as compared to 2014. Gross margins in the California and Pacific Northwest increased by $921 million and $97 million, respectively, while margins in the Mid-Continent decreased by $326 million. Gross margin increases in the California and the Pacific Northwest regions were due to favorable market conditions caused by strong clean product demand growth and supported by lower consumer prices as a result of falling crude oil price. PADD V also experienced several unplanned refinery outages, which impacted overall regional supply. Margins decreased in the Mid-Continent region primarily as a result of lower crude oil differentials. Our continued focus on realizing business improvements and synergies also contributed to our results across all regions. Partially offsetting the regional increases was a $317 million impact from lower of cost or market adjustments related to our inventory in 2015 compared to $42 million in 2014.

2014 Compared to 2013

Overview. Operating income for our refining segment increased $392 million, or 50%, to $1.2 billion in 2014 as compared to 2013 as a result of higher gross margins, which exceeded increased manufacturing costs and other operating expenses in 2014 resulting from our expanded operations. Total refinery utilization was 97% in 2014 as compared to 95% in 2013 primarily as a result of reduced turnaround activities, operational efficiencies and reliability.

Refining Throughput. Total refining throughput increased 128 Mbpd, or 18%, to 825 Mbpd in 2014 as compared to 697 Mbpd in 2013. The increase is primarily due to higher throughput in the California region following the Los Angeles Acquisition, including a 266 Mbpd refinery, combined with higher throughput at the Washington and Utah refineries due to scheduled turnarounds in 2013 that lowered the 2013 throughput.

Gross Refining Margins. Our gross refining margin per barrel increased by $1.51 per barrel, or 14%, to $12.27 per barrel in 2014 as compared to 2013 given a stronger margin environment across all regions, refinery crude oil optimization and a marginal year-over-year increase in WTI to Brent crude oil discounts.

Total gross refining margin increased $914 million, or 33%, to $3.7 billion in 2014 as compared to 2013. Gross margins in the California, Pacific Northwest and Mid-Continent regions increased $718 million, $43 million and $153 million, respectively. Gross refining margin increases in the California region were due to full year utilization of assets from the Los Angeles Acquisition and realization of synergies that improved margin capture. Margins increased in the Mid-Continent region due to additional throughput resulting from the expansion of the waxy crude project at our Salt Lake City refinery and the distillate desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery. The increase in the Pacific Northwest region was driven by stronger industry gasoline and diesel margins due to our ability to transport cost-advantaged Bakken crude oil, which continued to price at a discount to ANS during 2014, to our Anacortes refinery using TLLP’s Anacortes rail facility.

43
TLLP Segment

TLLP is a publicly traded limited partnership that was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. A significant portion of its assets are integral to the success of Tesoro’s refining and marketing operations and generate revenue by charging fees for gathering crude oil, natural gas, and water, for terminalling, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products and for processing and fractionating NGLs. On December 2, 2014, TLLP completed the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition transforming TLLP into a full-service logistics company with assets allowing geographic and revenue diversification in support of our strategic initiatives. 

Operational Data and Results. Management uses average revenue per barrel and average revenue per MMBtu to evaluate performance and compare profitability to other companies in the industry. We calculate average revenue per barrel as revenue divided by total throughput and total processing volumes, respectively. We calculate average revenue per MMBtu as revenue divided by total volume. Investors and analysts use these financial measures to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. These financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to segment operating income, revenues and operating expenses or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The results of operations for TLLP’s natural gas gathering and processing operations are shown in Mbpd, per barrel, MMBtu and per MMBtu amounts. Our TLLP segment operating data are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)TLLP commenced natural gas gathering and processing operations with the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business on December 2, 2014. Per day calculations only reflect the period of 2014 that TLLP owned the Rockies Natural Gas Business.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Our TLLP segment operating results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)TLLP commenced natural gas gathering and processing operations with the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business on December 2, 2014.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014

Overview. Operating income for our TLLP segment increased $232 million to $419 million due to higher revenues, offset by an increase in operating expenses resulting from increased labor and operating costs associated with the acquired operations. The Rockies Natural Gas Business contributed significantly towards the increase in TLLP’s operating income during 2015.

Revenues and Throughput.  Gathering throughput volume increased as a result of the assets acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition and the continuing expansion of the High Plains System. The increase in volumes for crude oil gathering pipeline throughput was almost entirely due to third-party volumes. NGL processing throughput and fee-based processing throughput volumes also increased as a result of a full year of operations of the assets acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. These higher throughput volumes resulted in an increase to revenues of $512 million during 2015 to $1.1 billion as compared to 2014.

Operating and Other Expenses. Operating expenses increased $146 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily related to operations acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition during 2014. Included in operating expenses is an incremental accrual of $24 million related to the 2013 release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga, North Dakota compared to $18 million recognized in 2014. General and administrative expenses increased by $28 million due to higher allocations of overhead costs associated with increased costs to support the growth of the business.

45
2014 Compared to 2013

Overview. Operating income for our TLLP segment increased $124 million to $187 million due to higher revenues partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $93 million to $265 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 resulting from increased labor and operating costs associated with TLLP’s 2013 acquisitions of the Northwest Products System and the logistics assets that were part of our Los Angeles Acquisition.

Revenues and Throughput. Terminalling and transportation throughput volumes increased during 2014 as compared to 2013 driven by a full year of operations following the acquired operations. Pipeline gathering throughput volume also increased due to continued expansion of TLLP’s crude oil gathering assets and acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business. Total revenues increased $287 million to $600 million during 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily driven by higher throughput volumes in terminalling and transportation from TLLP’s 2013 acquisitions. The Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition contributed $23 million in natural gas processing revenue in 2014.

Operating and Other Expenses. Increases in operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses of $93 million, $42 million and $32 million, respectively, in 2014 as compared to 2013 were driven by a full year of operations and depreciation following TLLP’s 2013 acquisitions of the Northwest Products System and the logistics assets that were part of our Los Angeles Acquisition. During 2014, TLLP incurred transaction and integration costs of $19 million related to its Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. In addition, TLLP recorded an accrual during 2014 to reflect improved scope definition and estimates related to the 2013 release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga, North Dakota that exceeded TLLP’s insurance policy loss limit, which resulted in an increase in the total estimated cost associated with the project.

Marketing Segment

As discussed in the “Items Impacting Comparability”, we revised our segment presentation during the second quarter of 2015 to present a marketing segment inclusive of both branded and unbranded operations. Previously, our retail segment included only branded operations and unbranded operations were included in the refining segment operating results. Operating results have been retrospectively updated for this change in segment presentation.

We sell gasoline and diesel fuel in the western United States through branded and unbranded channels. Our branded operations include transportation fuel sales through retail stations and agreements with third-party dealers and distributors (or “Jobber/dealers”). Our unbranded, or wholesale, business includes volumes sold through agreements with third-party dealers. Our branded and unbranded channels provide profitable and committed outlets for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries. During 2014, we converted our company-operated retail locations to MSOs and retained the transportation fuel sales. Under these MSO arrangements, we no longer operate the convenience stores, own the related merchandise inventory or employ the store employees as the MSO operates the stations. Our marketing segment included a network of retail stations under the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM, RebelTM and Tesoro® brands. Our unique brand portfolio allows us to regionally select brands in response to consumer preferences and provides a ratable off-take for our refined products, allowing us to run our refineries at higher utilization. We are able to serve a broader customer base by offering premium and value brands in each of our regions.

Operational Data and Results. Management uses fuel margin per gallon to compare fuel results to other companies in the industry. There are a variety of ways to calculate fuel margin per gallon; different companies may calculate it in different ways. We calculate fuel margin per gallon by dividing fuel gross margin by fuel sales volumes. Investors and analysts may use fuel margin per gallon to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. This financial measure should not be considered an alternative to revenues, segment operating income or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Fuel margin and fuel margin per gallon include the effect of intersegment purchases from the refining segment.

46
Our marketing segment operating data and results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)In December 2014, we converted our company-operated retail stations to MSO retail stations. The impact of this change was not material to our marketing segment results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014

Overview. Operating income increased $346 million, or 63%, to $899 million in 2015, as compared to $553 million in 2014, primarily as a result of increased fuel sales volumes driven by strong demand and growth in our retail site network and reduced operating expenses.

Gross Margin. Gross margin increased $296 million to $1.3 billion during 2015 as compared to $970 million in 2014. We experienced higher fuel margin driven by favorable market conditions and strong demand. Fuel sales volumes increased 3.7% during 2015 and 2014 from strong demand attributed to lower fuel prices and continued economic improvement in the markets in which we operate.

47
Operating and Other Expenses. The decrease of $52 million in operating expenses was primarily driven by the conversion of our retail stations to the MSO model that reduced costs associated with management of station operations.

2014 Compared to 2013

Overview. Operating income increased $335 million, or 154%, to $553 million in 2014, as compared to $218 million in 2013, primarily as a result of higher total fuel sales volumes and higher fuel margin per gallon partially offset by higher operating expenses due to a larger branded network. Fuel sales revenues increased $3.1 billion, or 15%, to $23.7 billion in 2014 as compared to $20.6 billion in 2013, reflecting increased fuel sales volumes as a result of higher average station count in 2014 partially offset by lower average sales prices.

Gross Margin. Fuel margin per gallon increased 43% to $0.10 per gallon in 2014 primarily due to our ability to capture favorable market conditions where declining street prices were outpaced by spot market prices at the rack. Total gross margin increased $372 million, or 62% to $970 million in 2014 compared to $598 million in 2013, which was primarily driven by an increase in fuel sales volumes as well as the marketing fuel margin. Branded and unbranded fuel sales volumes increased 1.5 billion gallons, or 22%, to 8.3 billion gallons during 2014 as compared to 2013 reflecting higher average station count due to a full year of the stations added from the Los Angeles Acquisition in 2013 and continued expansion of our branded network during 2014.

Operating and Other Expenses. Operating expenses increased $34 million, or 11%, to $352 million during 2014 as compared to $318 million in 2013. The increase is a result of expenses incurred to operate additional stations from the expansion of our branded network.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Overview

We operate in an environment where our capital resources and liquidity are impacted by changes in the price of crude oil and refined products, availability of trade credit, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand for transportation fuels, weather conditions, fluctuations in seasonal demand, governmental regulations, geo-political conditions and overall market and global economic conditions. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for further information related to risks and other factors. Future capital expenditures, as well as borrowings under our credit agreements and other sources of capital, may be affected by these conditions. Debt is described in greater detail in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

48
Capitalization

Our capital structure was comprised of the following (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our debt, net of unamortized issuance costs, to capitalization ratio was 34% and 37% at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our debt, net of unamortized issuance costs, to capitalization ratio, excluding TLLP, was 19% and 27%, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, which excludes TLLP total debt, net of unamortized issuance costs and TLLP capital leases of $2.8 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and excludes noncontrolling interest of $2.5 billion at both December 31, 2015 and 2014. TLLP’s debt is non-recourse to Tesoro, except for TLGP.

2015 Debt Transactions

During 2015, we voluntarily repaid our obligation of $398 million under the Term Loan Facility in its entirety with available cash on hand. The Term Loan Facility originally funded a portion of the Los Angeles Acquisition and was scheduled to mature on May 30, 2016. Amounts paid on the Term Loan Facility cannot be re-borrowed.

TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility. On November 12, 2015, TLLP executed a $250 million unsecured term loan facility (the “TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility”) to fund a portion of the LA Storage and Handling Asset acquisition. The TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility matures December 3, 2020 and may be repaid at any time, but amounts may not be re-borrowed. There were no payments on the borrowings under the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility during the year ended December 31, 2015. The borrowings under the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility incurred interest at a rate of 3.10% as of December 31, 2015 based on the following expense and fee schedule:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________

(b) TLLP can elect the interest rate to apply to the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility between a base rate plus the base rate margin, or a Eurodollar rate, for the applicable term, plus the Eurodollar margin at the time of borrowing.

49
The TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, representations and warranties and events of default substantially similar to those set forth in the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. There are no maintenance financial covenants associated with the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility.

On February 3, 2016, TLLP repaid the full amount of the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility, including accrued interest, with proceeds drawn from the TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility. All commitments under the TLLP Unsecured Term Loan Facility were terminated effective with the repayment.

Credit Facilities Overview

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations with additional sources available under borrowing capacity from our revolving lines of credit. We ended 2015 with $942 million of cash and cash equivalents, no borrowings outstanding under our Tesoro Corporation revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and $305 million of borrowings outstanding under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. We believe available capital resources will be adequate to meet our capital expenditure, working capital and debt service requirements. We had available capacity under revolving credit facilities as follows at December 31, 2015 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Borrowing base is the lesser of the amount of the periodically adjusted borrowing base or the agreement’s total capacity of $3.0 billion.

As of December 31, 2015, our revolving credit facilities were subject to the following expenses and fees:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(b)We can elect the interest rate to apply to the facility between a base rate plus the base rate margin, or a Eurodollar rate, for the applicable term, plus the Eurodollar margin at the time of the borrowing. The applicable margin on the Revolving Credit Facility varies primarily based upon our credit ratings. Letters of credit outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility incur fees at the Eurodollar margin rate.

(c)TLLP has the option to elect if the borrowings will bear interest at either, a base rate plus the base rate margin or a Eurodollar rate, for the applicable period, plus the Eurodollar margin at the time of the borrowing. The applicable margin varies based upon a certain leverage ratio, as defined by the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. Letters of credit outstanding under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility incur fees at the Eurodollar margin rate.

Covenants. Our Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, TLLP Revolving Credit Facility, senior notes and TLLP senior notes each limit our ability to make certain restricted payments (as defined in our debt agreements), which include dividends (distributions for TLLP), purchases of our stock or voluntary prepayments of subordinate debt. The aggregate amount of restricted payments cannot exceed an amount defined in each of the debt agreements. The indentures for our senior notes also limit certain of our subsidiaries ability to make certain payments and distributions. 

We do not believe that the limitations will restrict our ability to pay dividends (distributions for TLLP) or repurchase stock under our current programs. We have a default covenant that requires us to maintain specified levels of tangible net worth. Additionally, the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that require TLLP to maintain certain interest coverage and leverage ratios. There were no changes to the Revolving Credit Facility or TLLP Revolving Credit Facility covenants during the year ended December 31, 2015. We were in compliance with our debt covenants as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our debt obligations.

50
TLLP Revolving Credit Facility Amendment. On January 29, 2016, TLLP amended its existing secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. As a result of the amendment, TLLP decreased the aggregate available facility limit from $900 million to $600 million and improved terms related to pricing and financial covenants. 

TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility. On January 29, 2016, TLLP syndicated a new $1.0 billion secured TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility. The primary use of proceeds under this facility will be to fund TLLP asset acquisitions. This facility provides TLLP a flexible capital structure with a segregated source of financing for future asset acquisitions including transactions with Tesoro. The terms, covenants and restrictions under this facility are substantially the same with its amended secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. 

The secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility and the secured TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility ratably share collateral comprised primarily of TLLP property, plant and equipment and both facilities mature January 29, 2021. In addition, upon an upgrade of TLLP’s corporate family rating to investment grade, certain covenants and restrictions under each facility will automatically be eliminated or improved. See further discussion in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

Share Repurchases

We are authorized by our Board to purchase shares of our common stock in open market transactions at our discretion. The Board’s authorization has no time limit and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Purchases of our common stock can be made to offset the dilutive effect of stock-based compensation awards and to meet our obligations under employee benefit and compensation plans, including the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock and to fulfill other stock compensation requirements. We purchased approximately 6.9 million shares of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2015 at an average price of $93.60 per share and 8.4 million shares of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2014 at an average price of $59.87 per share for approximately $644 million and $500 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. On October 28, 2015, our Board approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program to become effective upon the full completion of the current $1.0 billion share repurchase authorized on July 30, 2014. With the new program, we have $1.4 billion remaining under our authorized programs as of December 31, 2015.

Cash Dividends

We paid cash dividends totaling $228 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, based on a $0.50 per share quarterly cash dividend on common stock and $0.425 per share quarterly cash dividend on common stock in the last half and first half of the year, respectively. We paid cash dividends totaling $141 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, based on a $0.30 per share and $0.25 per share quarterly cash dividend on common stock in the last half and first half of the year, respectively. We paid cash dividends totaling $121 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, based on a $0.25 per share and $0.20 per share quarterly cash dividend on common stock in the last half and first half of the year, respectively. On January 29, 2016, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share, payable on March 15, 2016 to shareholders of record on February 29, 2016.

Cash Flow Summary

Working capital (excluding cash) increased $191 million in 2015 primarily related to the timing of our payments for crude oil and refined product purchases, which was offset by timing of receivables, and the net decrease in inventories, which included the $359 million lower of cost or market adjustment due to the lower price and environment we experienced during 2015. Working capital (excluding cash) increased $28 million in 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily related to the timing of receipts and payments and the decrease in inventories, including the $42 million lower of cost or market adjustment due to the lower price and environment we experienced during the last quarter of 2014.

Components of our cash flows are set forth below (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
2015 Compared to 2014

Net cash from operating activities increased $767 million, or 56%, to $2.1 billion in 2015, as compared to $1.4 billion in 2014. The increase in net cash from operating activities was primarily due to $802 million in higher net earnings in 2015 when compared to 2014 offset by an $86 million increase in turnaround and branding charges during 2015 compared to 2014.

Net cash used in investing activities decreased $2.0 billion, or 64%, to $1.1 billion in 2015, as compared to $3.2 billion in 2014 primarily due to cash paid of $2.5 billion for TLLP’s acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business with no comparable acquisition in 2015. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in cash capital expenditures of $345 million primarily in our refining segment. See “Capital Expenditures” discussion in this section.

Net cash used in financing activities during 2015 totaled $1.1 billion as compared to net cash from financing activities of $1.6 billion in 2014. The change of $2.6 billion was primarily due to TLLP’s financing activities during 2014 including senior note issuances of $1.3 billion, net proceeds of approximately $949 million from the issuance of TLLP common units, and borrowings on the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility to fund its 2014 acquisitions. Additionally, we completed the issuance of the $300 million 2024 Notes used to repay the 2019 Notes. Dividend payments and payments to noncontrolling interests increased $173 million and purchases of common stock under our share repurchase programs increased $144 million during 2015 as compared to 2014.

2014 Compared to 2013

Net cash from operating activities increased $505 million, or 59%, to $1.4 billion in 2014 as compared to $859 million in 2013. The increase in net cash from operating activities was primarily due to $434 million in higher net earnings in 2014 when compared to 2013 partially offset by a $195 million decrease in turnaround and branding charges during 2014 compared to 2013.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $595 million, or 23% to $3.2 billion in 2014 as compared to $2.6 billion in 2013 primarily due to the receipt of gross proceeds of $539 million from the sale of the Hawaii Business in 2013. In addition, we had an increase in cash capital expenditures of $115 million in 2014 as compared to 2013. 

Net cash from financing activities during 2014 totaled $1.6 billion as compared to net cash from financing activities of $1.3 billion in 2013. Proceeds from financing activities during 2014 include TLLP’s financing activities during 2014 including senior note issuances of $1.3 billion, net proceeds of approximately $949 million from the issuance of TLLP common units, and borrowings on the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility to fund its 2014 acquisitions. Additionally, in 2014, we completed the issuance of the $300 million 2024 Notes used to repay the 2019 Notes. Purchases of common stock under our share repurchase programs increased $60 million and dividend payments and payments to noncontrolling interests increased $57 million during 2014 as compared to 2013.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital spending reflects the Company’s emphasis on long term strategic priorities including continued focus on safety, reliability and value-driven growth. Growth capital expenditures include purchases or construction of new assets and expansion of existing facilities or services that increase throughput capacity or operational capabilities of our assets. Maintenance capital expenditures include projects to extend the life or maintain equipment reliability and integrity. Tesoro regulatory capital expenditures include projects to attain or maintain compliance with regulatory standards. We monitor the effectiveness of our investments in capital projects as part of our focus on financial discipline and continuous improvement. In addition, for major capital projects, we routinely review project assumptions and project execution as well as obtain third-party evaluations to assist in improving our project planning and execution. Actual and estimated amounts described below include amounts representing capitalized interest and labor. Tesoro primarily funds capital expenditures with cash generated from operations. TLLP primarily funds its capital expenditures with cash generated from operations, reimbursements for certain growth and maintenance capital expenditures, borrowings under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility and issuances of additional TLLP debt and equity securities, as needed.

2015 Capital Expenditures. Our 2015 capital expenditures are as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)Tesoro capital expenditures exclude TLLP.

52
The following major projects were completed during 2015 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)The expansion project at the Salt Lake City refinery improved yields of gasoline and diesel, improved the flexibility of processing crude feedstocks and increased throughput capacity by 4 Mbpd. The expansion project increased potential waxy crude oil processing capabilities up to 26 Mbpd. We completed the work in the second quarter of 2015.

(b)TLLP substantially completed the construction of a pipeline gathering system (the “Connolly Gathering System”) to gather crude oil from various points in Dunn County, North Dakota for delivery at its existing Connolly Station with an expected capacity of approximately 60 Mbpd.

2016 Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures for Tesoro of $990 million and TLLP of $493 million, as presented in December 2015, are currently being reevaluated relative to our capital investment plans. We anticipate reducing our plans attributable to spending as a result of permit timing changes for the Los Angeles Refinery Integration Project and additional environmental impact studies required related to the Clean Product Upgrade Project. Tesoro still expects to complete these projects over the next few years, but at a slower pace than previously planned. Any reductions in 2016 capital expenditures are not expected to impact our 2016 business improvement targets. We also anticipate TLLP reducing capital spending primarily driven by several growth projects in both the Rockies and Bakken regions that have been delayed beyond 2016 due to the current low commodity price environment.

Cost estimates for projects currently in process or under development are subject to further review, analysis and permitting requirements resulting in revisions to our current spend estimates. We have the following major capital projects in process or under development (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(d)The Clean Product Upgrade Project at our Anacortes, Washington refinery enables compliance with Tier 3 gasoline sulfur reduction; reduction of gasoline production costs; extraction of existing mixed xylene from gasoline and logistics capability for its export to manufacturers of polyester fibers and films used in clothing, food packaging and beverage containers. The project was approved by our Board in February 2015 with approximately $25 million approved for the first phase of the project. The project remains subject to regulatory approval, which we expect to obtain in 2016.

(e)The regulatory and compliance project for the Avon Wharf in Martinez, California is required under the California building code for Marine Oil Terminal Engineering and Maintenance Standards (“MOTEMS”). The project will replace the existing berth with a MOTEMS compliant structure that will improve clean product movements and has received all regulatory approval and permits.

(f)The integration project at the Los Angeles refinery is designed to improve the flexibility of gasoline and diesel yields and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The proposed project, subject to final Board approval, project scoping, engineering and regulatory approval, includes decommissioning the fluid catalytic cracking unit at our Wilmington refinery. Of the total expected capital expenditure related to this project, a portion will be incurred and paid by TLLP.

53
Turnarounds and Branding Charges

In addition to our capital spending program, we have expenditures for turnarounds, catalyst and branding charges. Our 2015 actual and 2016 expected expenditures and significant turnarounds activity are as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have not entered into any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements, other than our leasing arrangements described in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 that would result in off-balance sheet liabilities.

Environmental and Other Matters

We are a party to various litigation and contingent loss situations, including environmental and income tax matters, arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of these matters with certainty, we have accrued for the estimated liabilities when appropriate. We believe that the outcome of these matters will not have a material impact on our liquidity or financial position, although the resolution of certain of these matters could have a material impact on our interim or annual results of operations. Additionally, if applicable, we accrue receivables for probable third-party recoveries.

Environmental Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws, which change frequently, regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require us to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum or chemical substances at various sites, install additional controls or make other modifications to certain emission sources, equipment or facilities.

Future expenditures may be required to comply with the Clean Air Act and other federal, state and local requirements for our various sites, including our refineries, tank farms, pipelines and currently and previously owned or operated terminal and retail station properties. The impact of these legislative and regulatory requirements, including any greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program or low carbon fuel standards, could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, consolidated financial position, or results of operations.

The Energy Independence and Security Act was enacted into federal law in December 2007 creating a second Renewable Fuels Standard (“RFS2”) requiring the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the U.S. to reach 20.5 billion gallons in 2015 and to increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. These requirements could reduce future demand growth for petroleum products that we manufacture. In the near term, the RFS2 presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for the ethanol, alternative fuel and refining and marketing industries. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has finalized a reduced total renewable fuel and advanced biofuel requirement of 16.28 billion gallons for 2014, 16.93 billion gallons for 2015 and 18.11 billion gallons for 2016. We are currently meeting the RFS2 requirements through a combination of RINs that were carried over from prior periods, blending renewable fuels obtained from third parties and purchases of RINs in the open market. The spending related to the purchases of RINs for 2015 was not material to our operations and the spending for 2016 is not expected to be material based on our operations and the current regulatory environment. Actual costs related to RINs may differ due to changes in the market price of RINs and the ultimate destinations of our products. Additional expenditures could be required to logistically accommodate the increased use of renewable transportation fuels. While we cannot currently estimate the ultimate impact of this statute and implementing its regulations for future blending mandates, and currently believe that the outcome will not have a material impact on our liquidity or financial position, the ultimate outcome could have a material impact on our results of operations.

54
In California, Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”) created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions by requiring that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. AB 32 focuses on using market mechanisms, such as a cap-and-trade program and a low carbon fuel standard (“LCFS”), to achieve emissions reduction targets. The LCFS became effective in January 2010 and requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel fuel by 2020. In 2011, CARB approved cap-and-trade requirements that became effective in January 2013, and all of AB 32 related regulations are to be fully implemented by 2020. In December 2011, a U.S. District Court ruled that the LCFS violates the U.S. Constitution. CARB appealed the decision and, on September 18, 2013, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the lower court’s decision and remanded the case to the lower court to rule on whether the ethanol provisions of the LCFS are unconstitutional. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the lower court’s ruling on the LCFS, and the implementation and implications of AB 32 will take many years to realize. On January 1, 2015, transportation fuels were brought into the California cap-and-trade program, making fuel suppliers responsible for carbon emission from their products. The cost for carbon emissions is being passed through to customers. While we believe that the cap and trade requirements will not materially impact our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations, we cannot currently predict the impact of the LCFS and other AB 32 related regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

Washington Refinery Fire. The naphtha hydrotreater unit at our Washington refinery was involved in a fire in April 2010, which fatally injured seven employees and rendered the unit inoperable. The Washington State Department of Labor & Industries (“L&I”) initiated an investigation of the incident. L&I completed its investigation in October 2010, issued a citation and assessed a $2.4 million fine, which we appealed. L&I reassumed jurisdiction of the citation and affirmed the allegations in December 2010. We disagree with L&I’s characterizations of operations at our Washington refinery and believe, based on available evidence and scientific reviews, that many of the agency’s conclusions are mistaken. We filed an appeal of the citation in January 2011. In separate September 2013, November 2013 and February 2015 orders, the Board of Industrial Insurance Appeals (“BIIA”) granted partial summary judgment in our favor rejecting 33 of the original 44 allegations in the citation as lacking legal or evidentiary support. A hearing on the remaining 11 allegations started on July 11, 2015, and we expect the judge to issue a recommended decision for the BIIA’s review in 2016. While we cannot currently estimate the final amount or timing of its resolution of this matter, we have established an accrual based on our best estimate at this time.

On January 14, 2016, we received an offer to settle a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) we received on November 20, 2013 from the EPA alleging 46 violations of the Clean Air Act Risk Management Plan requirements at our Washington refinery. The EPA conducted an investigation of the refinery in 2011, following the April 2010 fire in the naphtha hydrotreater unit. While we are evaluating the offer and cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter, the outcome will not have a material impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. 

In January 2015, we received notice and demand for indemnity from the previous owner of our Washington refinery for the damages they incurred in the civil litigation involving us and the previous owner brought by the families of those fatally wounded in the April 2010 refinery fire. We settled our involvement in the civil litigation in 2012. Arbitration proceedings concerning the demand for indemnity were initiated in March 2015 after an unsuccessful mediation, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this claim.

Environmental Liabilities. We are incurring and expect to continue to incur expenses for environmental remediation liabilities at a number of currently and previously owned or operated refining, pipeline, terminal and retail station properties. We have accrued liabilities totaling $255 million and $274 million, including $33 million and $32 million for TLLP, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

On July 10, 2015, a federal court issued an order denying coverage pursuant to insurance policies for environmental remediation liabilities at our Martinez refinery and those liabilities are included in our accruals above. The insurer had filed a declaratory relief action challenging coverage of the primary policy assigned to us when we acquired the refinery. The policies provide for coverage up to $190 million for expenditures in excess of $50 million in self-insurance. We have not recognized possible insurance recoveries under the policies and have appealed the order. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our environmental obligations.

55
Other Matters

In the ordinary course of business, we become party to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and governmental investigations, including environmental, regulatory and other matters. Large, and sometimes unspecified, damages or penalties may be sought from us in some matters. We have not established accruals for these matters unless a loss is probable and the amount of loss is currently estimable.

Environmental. The EPA has alleged that we have violated certain Clean Air Act regulations at our Alaska, Washington, Martinez, North Dakota and Utah refineries. We also retained the responsibility for resolving similar allegations relating to our former Hawaii refinery, which we sold in September 2013. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our environmental contingencies.

We have investigated conditions at certain active wastewater treatment units at our Martinez refinery pursuant to an order received in 2004 from the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board that named us as well as two previous owners of the Martinez refinery. We cannot currently estimate the amount of the ultimate resolution of the order, but we believe it will not have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

Certain non-governmental organizations filed a Request for Agency Action (the “Request”) with the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (“UDEQ”) concerning our Utah refinery in October 2012. The Request challenges the UDEQ’s permitting of our refinery conversion project alleging that the permits do not conform to the requirements of the Clean Air Act. As the permittee, we are the real party in interest and will be defending the permits with UDEQ. In orders issued on July 10 and September 9, 2014, the UDEQ Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) recommended the Executive Director of UDEQ deny Petitioners’ request for a stay of the project and dismiss their challenge to the permit. The Executive Director’s final decision approving the ALJ’s recommended order is currently under appeal. While we cannot estimate the timing or estimated amount, if any, associated with the outcome of this matter, we do not believe it will have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

In response to incidents in February and March 2014 at our Martinez refinery involving sulfuric acid exposure at the Alkylation Unit the EPA is conducting an investigation to evaluate the Martinez refinery’s compliance with certain federal environmental acts and the Risk Management Plan requirements under the Clean Air Act. While we cannot currently predict the timing and the resolution of this investigation, we believe the outcome will not have a material impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

Tax. We are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign tax laws and regulations. Newly enacted tax laws and regulations, and changes in existing tax laws and regulations, could result in increased expenditures in the future. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our tax matters.

56
Long-Term Commitments

During the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual commitments for purchases associated with the operation of our refineries along with other debt service and lease arrangements (see Notes 13 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information). We also have minimum contractual spending requirements for certain capital projects. The contractual commitments detailed below do not include our contractual obligations to TLLP under our various fee-based commercial agreements as these related-party transactions are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes our annual contractual commitments as of December 31, 2015 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Includes maturities of principal and interest payments, excluding capital lease obligations. Amounts and timing may be different from our estimated commitments due to potential voluntary debt prepayments and borrowings. Interest payments assume the interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2015.

(b)Capital lease obligations include amounts classified as interest. Operating lease obligations primarily represent our future minimum noncancellable lease commitments. Operating lease obligations primarily include lease arrangements with initial or remaining noncancellable terms in excess of one year and are not reduced by minimum rentals to be received by us under subleases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d)Represents long-term commitments primarily for the transportation of crude oil, refined products and NGLs as well as to purchase industrial gases, chemical processing services and utilities at our refineries. These purchase obligations are based on the contract’s minimum volume requirements.

(e)Minimum contractual spending requirements for certain capital projects.

We also have other noncurrent liabilities pertaining to our defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities and asset retirement obligations. With the exception of amounts classified as current, there is uncertainty as to the timing of future cash flows related to these obligations. As such, we have excluded the future cash flows from the contractual commitments table above. See additional information on pension and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities and asset retirement obligations in Note 15 and Note 16, respectively, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

In addition, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows with our unrecognized tax benefits, with the exception of amounts classified as current, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement. Accordingly, we have excluded from the table $5 million of unrecognized tax benefits recorded as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, and also excluded from the table, is a liability for potential interest and penalties of $2 million at December 31, 2015. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.

57
Pension Funding

We provide a qualified defined benefit retirement plan for all eligible employees, with benefits based on years of service and compensation. Our long-term expected return on plan assets is 6.50% as of December 31, 2015, and the actual return on our funded employee pension plan assets was $15 million, or 3.8%, loss in 2015 and $37 million, or 8.9%, gain in 2014. Based on a 4.40% discount rate and fair values of plan assets as of December 31, 2015, the assets in our funded employee pension plan were equal to approximately 54% of the projected benefit obligation. The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”) was signed into law in July 2012 and stipulated that the discount rate must remain within a specified corridor of a 25-year average corporate bond rate, with such corridor widening from 10% to 30% between 2012 and 2016. On the MAP-21 basis, the adjusted funding target attainment percentage (a funding measure defined under applicable pension regulations) was 110% at January 1, 2015. Although our funded employee retirement plan fully meets all of the funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations, we contributed $60 million during 2015 to improve the plan’s funded status. Future contributions are affected by returns on plan assets, discount rates, employee demographics, regulatory environments and other factors. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our benefit plans.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Critical Accounting Policies

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For additional information concerning certain estimates and assumptions, see the respective footnotes in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. Long-lived assets (which include property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, deferred refinery turnaround and catalyst costs and equity method investments) are evaluated for potential impairment when an asset disposition is probable or when there are indicators of impairment (for example, current period operating losses combined with a history of operating losses or a temporary shutdown of a refinery) and, if so, assessing whether the asset net book values are recoverable from estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The actual amount of an impairment loss to be recorded, if any, is equal to the amount by which the asset’s net book value exceeds its fair market value. Fair market value is based on the present values of estimated future cash flows in the absence of quoted market prices. Estimates of future cash flows and fair market values of assets require subjective assumptions with regard to several factors, including an assessment of global market conditions, future operating results and forecasts of the remaining useful lives of the assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Providing sensitivity analysis if other assumptions were used in performing the impairment evaluations is not practicable due to the significant number of assumptions involved in the estimates.

Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently should an event occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Such events or circumstances may be a significant change in business climate, economic and industry trends, legal factors, negative operating performance indicators, significant competition, changes in strategy, or disposition of a reporting unit or a portion thereof. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the reporting unit level on November 1 of each year and when circumstances change that might indicate impairment.

We test goodwill for impairment by performing an optional qualitative assessment process and/or using a two-step quantitative assessment process. If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment process and determine it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the carrying value of the net assets is more than the fair value of the reporting unit, the two-step quantitative assessment process is then performed; otherwise, no further testing is required. We may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment process and, instead, proceed directly to the two-step quantitative assessment process. For reporting units where the two-step quantitative assessment process is performed, the first step involves comparing the carrying value of net assets, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not considered impaired and the second step of the process is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its fair value, the second step measures the impairment loss, if any.

58
We elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment analysis using a two-step quantitative assessments process on $130 million of goodwill recorded in five reporting units of our TLLP segment and the qualitative assessment process on the remaining $58 million goodwill in the reporting units in our other two segments.

As part of our two-step quantitative goodwill impairment process for TLLP’s five reporting units, we engaged a third-party appraisal firm to assist in the determination of estimated fair value for each reporting unit. This determination includes estimating the fair value of each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the selection of appropriate peer group companies, control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete, the discount rates, terminal growth rates, and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures.

Factors utilized in the qualitative assessment include, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, company specific operating results and other relevant entity-specific events affecting individual reporting units.

We determined that no impairment charges resulted from our November 1, 2015 goodwill impairment assessment. Furthermore, the fair value of each of the five reporting units tested in step one of the goodwill impairment test were significantly in excess of the carrying value, and as such, we were not required to perform step two. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Income Taxes. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. We must establish a valuation allowance to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely. Significant management judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. We have recorded a valuation allowance of $7 million on certain state tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015, based on our estimates of taxable income in each jurisdiction in which we operate and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recoverable. We may need to establish an additional valuation allowance if actual results differ from these estimates or we make adjustments to these estimates in future periods.

We also recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Tax positions that are not recognized that we have taken or expect to take are generally recorded as liabilities.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits. Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves several assumptions and estimates including discount rates, expected rate of return on plan assets, rates of compensation, health care cost trends, inflation, retirement rates and mortality rates. We must assume a rate of return on funded pension plan assets in order to estimate our obligations under our defined benefit plans. Due to the nature of these calculations, we engage an actuarial firm to assist with these estimates and the calculation of certain employee benefit expenses. We record an asset for our plans overfunded status or a liability if the plans are underfunded. The funded status represents the difference between the fair value of our plans’ assets and the projected benefit obligations. While we believe the assumptions we used are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations. We determine the discount rate primarily by reference to the effective yields on high quality corporate bonds that have a comparable cash flow pattern to the expected payments to be made under our plans. The expected return on plan assets is based upon the weighted averages of the expected long-term rates of return for the broad categories of investments held in our plans and also uses a three-year average of the market value of plan assets. These assumptions can have a significant effect on the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements.

59
A one-percentage-point change in the expected return on plan assets and discount rate for the funded qualified employee retirement plan would increase (decrease) net periodic expense in 2015 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information regarding costs and assumptions.

Environmental Liabilities. We record environmental liabilities when environmental assessments and/or proposed environmental remedies are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Usually, the timing of our accruals coincides with assessing the liability and then completing a feasibility study or committing to a formal plan of action. When we complete our analysis or when we commit to a plan of action, we accrue a liability based on the minimum range of the expected costs, unless we consider another amount more likely. We base our cost estimates on the extent of remedial actions required by applicable governing agencies, experience gained from similar environmental projects and the amounts to be paid by other responsible parties.

Accruals for our environmental liabilities require judgment due to the uncertainties related to the magnitude of the liability and timing of the remediation effort. Our environmental liability estimates are subject to change due to potential changes in environmental laws, regulations or interpretations, additional information related to the extent and nature of the liability, and potential improvements in remediation technologies. We do not discount our estimated liabilities to present value. An estimate of the sensitivity for changes in those factors is not practicable due to the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions, and the wide range of possible outcomes.

Acquisitions. We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of these items requires management’s judgment, the utilization of independent valuation experts, and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the timing and amounts of future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, market prices, and asset lives, among other items. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization.

While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions.

New Accounting Standards and Disclosures

New accounting standards and disclosures are discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

60
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK