ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, or in other filings by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect the Corporation’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results.  

Increased pricing pressure, intense competition for sales of the Corporation’s products and the inability to innovate effectively could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial results.  

The Corporation competes in intensely competitive markets against well-known, branded products and private label products both domestically and internationally. Inherent risks in the Corporation’s competitive strategy include uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and competitive reaction. Some of the Corporation’s major competitors have undergone consolidation, which could result in increased competition and alter the dynamics of the industry. This consolidation may give competitors greater financial resources and greater market penetration and enable competitors to offer a wider variety of products and services at more competitive prices, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. It may be necessary for the Corporation to lower prices on its products and increase spending on advertising and promotions, each of which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

In addition, the Corporation incurs substantial development and marketing costs in introducing new and improved products and technologies. The introduction of a new consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually requires substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain recognition in the marketplace. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Some of the Corporation’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Corporation. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to develop new products is affected by whether it can successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences, develop and fund technological innovations, and receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be successful in developing new and improved products and technologies necessary to compete successfully in the industry or that the Corporation will be successful in advertising, marketing, timely launching and selling its products.  

4  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.  

The Corporation’s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace, which is experiencing increased concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets such as the U.S., Europe and Australia, the Corporation is increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining power than does the Corporation. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances which could lead to reduced profitability. The Corporation may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of its retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products; additional requirements related to safety, environmental, social and other sustainability issues; and other conditions. If the Corporation loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.  

Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

Increases in the cost of and availability of raw materials, including pulp and petroleum-based materials, the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, supplier constraints, an inability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or an inability to avoid disruptions in production output caused by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, governmental regulatory requirements or nongovernmental voluntary actions in response to global climate change concerns, and the like could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial results.  

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber from recovered waste paper, is used extensively in the Corporation’s tissue products and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of these fiber markets. Recycled fiber accounts for approximately 32 percent of the Corporation and its equity companies’ overall fiber requirements.  

Increases in pulp prices could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if selling prices for its finished products are not adjusted or if these adjustments significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks. On a worldwide basis, the Corporation supplies approximately 8 percent of its virgin fiber needs from internal pulp manufacturing operations.  

A number of the Corporation’s products, such as diapers, training and youth pants, incontinence care products, disposable wipes and various health care products, contain certain materials that are principally derived from petroleum. These materials are subject to price fluctuations based on changes in petroleum prices, availability and other factors. The Corporation purchases these materials from a number of suppliers. Significant increases in prices for these materials could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if selling prices for its finished products are not adjusted or if adjustments significantly trail the increases in prices for these materials. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.  

Although the Corporation believes that the supplies of raw materials needed to manufacture its products are adequate, global economic conditions, supplier capacity constraints and other factors (including actions taken to address climate change and related market responses) could affect the availability of, or prices for, those raw materials.  

The Corporation’s manufacturing operations utilize electricity, natural gas and petroleum-based fuels. To ensure that it uses all forms of energy cost-effectively, the Corporation maintains ongoing energy efficiency  

5  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 improvement programs at all of its manufacturing sites. The Corporation’s contracts with energy suppliers vary as to price, payment terms, quantities and duration. The Corporation’s energy costs are also affected by various market factors including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions (including actions taken to address climate change and related market responses). There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be fully protected against substantial changes in the price or availability of energy sources. Derivative instruments are used to manage a portion of natural gas price risk in accordance with the Corporation’s risk management policy.  

Global economic conditions, including recessions or slow economic growth, and continuing credit market disruptions in the United States and certain foreign countries, could continue to adversely affect the Corporation’s business and financial results.  

Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions, slow economic growth and credit market disruptions in the United States and certain foreign countries, may continue to negatively affect the Corporation’s business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact:  

   •    consumer demand for our products, including shifting consumer purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private-label products,  

   •    demand by businesses for our products, including effects of increased unemployment and cost savings efforts of those customers,  

   •    the mix of our products’ sales,  

   •    our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers, and  

   •    the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services.  

Ongoing volatility in global commodity, currency and financial markets resulted in uncertainty in the business environment in 2009, which is expected to continue into 2010. The Corporation relies on access to the credit markets, specifically the commercial paper and public bond markets, to provide supplemental funding for its operations. Although the Corporation has not experienced a disruption in its ability to access the credit markets, it is possible that the Corporation may have difficulty accessing the credit markets in the future, which may disrupt its businesses or further increase the Corporation’s cost of funding its operations. 

Prolonged recessions, slow economic growth or credit market disruptions could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings.  

The Corporation’s international operations are subject to foreign market risks, including foreign exchange risk and currency restrictions, which may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

Because the Corporation and its equity companies have manufacturing facilities in 38 countries and their products are sold in more than 150 countries, the Corporation’s results may be substantially affected by foreign market risks. The Corporation is subject to the impact of economic and political instability in developing countries.  

The Corporation faces increased risks in its international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency restrictions, adverse political and economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tariffs and other trade barriers, risks of expropriation, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Each of these factors could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  

6  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 Results of Operations” and Item 8, Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information about the effects of currency restrictions, currency devaluation and inflation in Venezuela on the Corporation’s financial results in 2009 and 2010.  

In addition, intense competition in European personal care and tissue markets, and the challenging economic, political and competitive environments in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia may slow the Corporation’s sales growth and earnings potential. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Corporation’s success internationally also depends on its ability to acquire or form successful business alliances, and there is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to acquire or form these alliances. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Corporation’s products will be accepted in any particular market.  

The Corporation is subject to the movement of various currencies against each other and versus the U.S. dollar. A portion of the exposures, arising from transactions and commitments denominated in non-local currencies, is systematically managed through foreign currency forward and swap contracts.  

Translation exposure for the Corporation with respect to foreign operations generally is not hedged. Weaker foreign currency exchange rates increase the potential impact of forecasted increases in dollar-based input costs for operations outside the U.S. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be protected against substantial foreign currency fluctuations.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation’s ongoing efforts to reduce costs will be successful.  

The Corporation continues to implement plans to improve its competitive position by achieving cost reductions in its operations. In addition, the Corporation expects ongoing cost savings from its organization optimization initiative and ongoing continuous improvement activities. The Corporation anticipates these continuing cost savings will result from previous reductions of its worldwide salaried workforce, reducing material costs and manufacturing waste and realizing productivity gains and distribution efficiencies in each of its business segments. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If the Corporation cannot successfully implement its cost savings plans, the Corporation may not realize all anticipated benefits. Any negative impact these plans have on the Corporation’s relationships with employees or customers or any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

The Corporation’s sales may not occur as estimated.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to anticipate consumer preferences, estimate sales of new products, estimate changes in population characteristics and the acceptance of the Corporation’s products in new markets or anticipate changes in technology and competitive responses. As a result, the Corporation may not be able to achieve anticipated sales.  

The Corporation may acquire new product lines or businesses and may have difficulties integrating future acquisitions or may not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions.  

The Corporation may pursue acquisitions of new product lines or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired product lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to identify suitable additional acquisition candidates or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage product lines or businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.  

7  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

The inability to integrate and manage acquired product lines or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, the inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate or the unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending from these acquisitions could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  

Moreover, future acquisitions could result in substantial additional indebtedness, exposure to contingent liabilities or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  

If we are unable to hire, develop or retain key employees or a skilled and diverse workforce, it could have an adverse effect on our business.  

Our strategy includes a focus on hiring, developing and retaining our management team and a skilled and diverse international workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then seek to train them to develop their skills. Unplanned turnover or failure to develop an effective succession plan for our leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse, skilled workforce, could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit, develop and retain the key personnel that we need.  

Pending litigation, administrative actions and new legal requirements could have an adverse effect on the Corporation.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be successful in defending itself in legal and administrative actions or in asserting its rights under various laws, including intellectual property laws. In addition, the Corporation could incur substantial costs in defending itself or in asserting its rights in these actions.  

The Corporation’s sales and results of operations also may be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including proposed health care reform legislation and climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against the Corporation and new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs to the Corporation, directly for its compliance or indirectly to the extent suppliers increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials.  

Although management believes that none of these proceedings or requirements will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation, there can be no assurance that the outcome of these proceedings or effects of new legal requirements will be as expected. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”.  

The Corporation obtains certain manufactured products and administrative services from third parties. If the third-party providers fail to satisfactorily perform, our operations could be adversely impacted.  

Third parties manufacture some of the Corporation’s products and provide certain administrative services. Disruptions or delays at the third-party manufacturers or service providers due to regional economic, business, environmental, or political events, or information technology system failures or military actions, or the failure of these manufacturers or service providers to otherwise satisfactorily perform, could adversely impact the Corporation’s operations, sales, payments to the Corporation’s vendors, employees, and others, and the Corporation’s ability to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Administrative functions transferred to third-party service providers include certain information technology;  

8  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 finance and accounting; sourcing and supply management; and human resources services. Although moving these administrative functions to third-party service providers has improved certain capabilities and lowered the Corporation’s cost of operations, the Corporation could experience disruptions in the quality and timeliness of the services.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES