PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. The Corporation is a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building its personal care, consumer tissue, K-C Professional & Other and health care brands. The Corporation is principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of essential products to improve people’s lives around the world. Most of these products are made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. As used in Items 1, 1A, 2, 3, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Form 10-K, the term “Corporation” refers to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. In the remainder of this Form 10-K, the terms “Kimberly-Clark” or “Corporation” refer only to Kimberly-Clark Corporation. For financial information by business segment and geographic area, and information about principal products and markets of the Corporation, reference is made to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to Item 8, Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Recent Developments  

During the first quarter of 2009, the Corporation acquired the remaining approximate 31 percent interest in its Andean region subsidiary, Colombiana Kimberly Colpapel S.A. (“CKC”), for $289 million. During the second quarter of 2009, the Corporation acquired Jackson Products, Inc. (“Jackson”), a privately-held safety products company, for approximately $155 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition of Jackson is consistent with the Corporation’s global business plan strategy to accelerate growth of high-margin workplace products sold by its Kimberly-Clark Professional business. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Corporation acquired Baylis Medical Company’s pain management business (“Baylis”). The Corporation’s Health Care business has been the exclusive distributor of these pain management products in the U.S. since 2001. Also during the fourth quarter of 2009, the Corporation acquired I-Flow Corporation (“I-Flow”), a healthcare company that develops and markets drug delivery systems and products for post-surgical pain relief and surgical site care, for $262 million, net of cash acquired. The Baylis and I-Flow acquisitions are consistent with the Corporation’s global business plan strategy to invest in the higher-growth, higher-margin medical device market. See Item 8, Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the acquisitions.  

In June 2009, the Corporation announced actions to reduce its worldwide salaried workforce by approximately 1,600 positions by the end of 2009. These actions resulted in cumulative pretax charges of approximately $128 million in 2009. See Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the organization optimization initiative.  

Description of the Corporation  

The Corporation is organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into four reportable global business segments: Personal Care; Consumer Tissue; K-C Professional & Other; and Health Care. The reportable segments were determined in accordance with how the Corporation’s executive managers develop and execute the Corporation’s global strategies to drive growth and profitability of the Corporation’s worldwide Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K-C Professional & Other and Health Care operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management, and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses.  

The principal sources of revenue in each of our global business segments are described below. Revenue, profit and total assets of each reportable segment are shown in Item 8, Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

1  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

The Personal Care segment manufactures and markets disposable diapers, training and youth pants, and swimpants; baby wipes; feminine and incontinence care products; and related products. Products in this segment are primarily for household use and are sold under a variety of brand names, including Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, Kotex, Lightdays, Depend, Poise and other brand names.  

The Consumer Tissue segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products for household use. Products in this segment are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Hakle, Page and other brand names.  

The K-C Professional & Other segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins, wipers and a range of safety products for the away-from-home marketplace. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech, KleenGuard, Kimcare and Jackson brand names.  

The Health Care segment manufactures and markets disposable health care products such as surgical drapes and gowns, infection control products, face masks, exam gloves, respiratory products, pain management products and other disposable medical products. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Ballard, ON-Q and other brand names.  

Products for household use are sold directly, and through wholesalers, to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors and directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, health care establishments and high volume public facilities. In addition, certain products are sold to converters.  

Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were approximately 13 percent in 2009, and 14 percent in 2008 and 2007.  

Patents and Trademarks  

The Corporation owns various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. The Corporation considers the patents and trademarks which it owns and the trademarks under which it sells certain of its products to be material to its business. Consequently, the Corporation seeks patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.  

Raw Materials  

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for the Corporation’s tissue products and is a component in disposable diapers, training pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.  

Superabsorbent materials are important components in disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence and health care products, and away-from-home wipers.  

Most recovered paper, synthetics, pulp and recycled fiber are purchased from third parties. The Corporation considers the supply of these raw materials to be adequate to meet the needs of its businesses. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  

2  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Competition  

The Corporation has several major competitors in most of its markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than the Corporation. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which the Corporation conducts its business, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  

Research and Development  

Research and development expenditures are directed toward new or improved personal care, tissue, wiping, safety, and health care products and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development expense was $301 million in 2009, $297 million in 2008 and $277 million in 2007.  

Foreign Market Risks  

The Corporation operates and markets its products globally, and its business strategy includes targeted growth in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

Environmental Matters  

Total worldwide capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at the Corporation’s facilities are expected to be as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total worldwide operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental payments, and research and engineering costs are expected to be as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on the Corporation’s total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. However, current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in the Corporation’s plans, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.  

3  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Employees  

In its worldwide consolidated operations, the Corporation had approximately 56,000 employees as of December 31, 2009.  

Available Information  

The Corporation makes available financial information, news releases and other information on the Corporation’s website at www.kimberly-clark.com. The Corporation’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after the Corporation files these reports and amendments with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-1522 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS