PART I

Item 1. Business.

Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), which appears on pages 33-51; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 56-58; and Note 11, Segment Information, which appears on pages 71-72 of the 2011 Annual Report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the "Company," "P&G," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refers to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries.

The Procter & Gamble Company is focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than 180 countries.

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov. You can also access these reports through links from our website at: www.pg.com/investors/sectionmain.shtml.

Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.

Financial Information about Segments

As of June 30, 2011, the Company was organized into two Global Business Units (GBU's): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. We had six reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these businesses are similar. Operating margins of the individual businesses vary due to the nature of materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets of each business and products. While none of our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components within certain of our reportable segments, such as Batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care), Appliances (Grooming) and Prestige Fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In addition, anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can drive unusually high demand for batteries.

Additional information about our businesses can be found in MD&A and Note 11, Segment Information, which appear on pages 33-51 and 71-72, respectively, of the 2011 Annual Report.

Narrative Description of Business

Business Model. Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. Many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as super-premium, premium, mid-tier value and low-tier economy products). Generally speaking, we compete with super-premium, premium and mid-tier value products. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and in "high-frequency stores," the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the "first moment of truth"-when a consumer is shopping in the store. We must also win the "second moment of truth"-when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business. Research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our commitment to future growth.

Key Product Categories. In 2011, two product categories accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales. The laundry category constituted approximately 16% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 17% in 2010 and 2009. The diaper category constituted approximately 11% of net sales for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009.

2

Key Customers. Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 15% of our total revenue in 2011 and 16% of total revenue in 2010 and 2009. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 32% of our total unit volume in 2011 and 2010, compared to 30% of total unit volume in in 2009. The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete.

Sources and Availability of Materials. Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important commodities used in our plants, products and in the trucks used to deliver our products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass on the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change. The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, no one of which is material to our business taken as a whole.

Trademarks and Patents. We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products. All major products and trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.

Competitive Condition. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. We are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate-often holding a leadership or significant market share position. We market our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors.

Research and Development Expenditures. Research and development expenditures enable us to develop technologies and obtain patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and improve the lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2,001 million in 2011, $1,950 million in 2010 and $1,864 million in 2009.

Expenditures for Environmental Compliance. Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2012.

Employees. Total number of employees is an estimate of total company employees excluding interns, co-ops and employees of joint ventures. Historical numbers include employees of discontinued operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations

Net sales in the United States account for approximately 37% of total net sales. No other individual country had net sales exceeding 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may also be affected by additional factors including changing currency values, different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) CEEMEA includes Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa

Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

Development of the Business

The discussion below provides insight to the general development of our business since the beginning of fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2011, we did not have a material acquisition or disposition of assets.

Global Business Units. Effective February 2011, P&G’s business is organized into two product-based segments called Global Business Units (“GBUs”): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. These GBUs contain a total of six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.