Item 1A. Risk Factors.

We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Shareholders, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are “forward-looking statements” and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations. 

The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. 

A material change in consumer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business. 

We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by shifting our portfolio towards faster growing, higher margin businesses. If demand and growth rates fall substantially below expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these businesses, our results could be negatively impacted. This could occur due to unforeseen negative economic or political events or to changes in consumer trends and habits. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world. 

The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can respond to our local and global competitors. 

Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms, as well as technological advances and patents granted to competition. 

Our businesses face cost pressures and risks inherent in global manufacturing which could affect our business results. 

Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, labor costs, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects (including outsourcing projects), sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements. In addition, we are subject to risks inherent in global manufacturing, such as environmental events, labor disputes, disruption in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. While we have business continuity and contingency plans for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, significant disruption of manufacturing could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business. 

We face risks associated with significant international operations. 

We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our sales outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues and earnings received and/or balances held by or invested in our foreign subsidiaries, as well as exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings from outside the U.S. that can increase our exposure. We have sizable businesses and maintain local currency cash balances in a number of foreign countries with exchange controls, including, but not limited to, Venezuela, China and India. Our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these risks in an increasingly volatile environment. Further, we expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate growth in developing regions. Should growth rates or our market share fall substantially below expected levels in these regions, our results could be negatively impacted. In addition, economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities. 

4

If the reputation of the Company or one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results. 

The Company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships with key stakeholders and other constituencies. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, which could negatively impact sentiments toward the Company, our ability to operate freely could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, particularly our billion-dollar brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers, or we are unable to maintain trademark protection. Further, our results could be negatively impacted if one of our leading brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products. 

Our ability to successfully adapt to ongoing organizational change could impact our business results. 

We have executed a number of significant business and organizational changes including acquisitions, divestitures and workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including retention of key employees, is critical to our business success. In addition, we are generally a build-from-within company, and our success is dependent on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. This includes developing organization capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited and competition for these resources is intense. Further, business and organizational changes may result in more reliance on third parties for various services, and that reliance may increase reputational, operational and compliance risks, including the risk of corruption. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. 

Our ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities could impact our business results. 

As a company that manages a portfolio of consumer brands, our ongoing business model involves a certain level of acquisition and divestiture activities. We must be able to successfully manage the impacts of these activities, while at the same time delivering against base business objectives. Specifically, our financial results could be adversely impacted if: 1) we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions, 2) changes in the cash flows or other market-based assumptions cause the value of acquired assets to fall below book value or 3) we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue streams associated with divested brands. 

Our business is subject to legislation, regulation and enforcement in the U.S. and abroad. 

Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations and increased enforcement actions may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in competition, product-related, privacy and environmental laws, including actions in response to global climate change concerns, increased enforcement as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and enforcement penalties. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and other intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability may materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, the competition law and antitrust investigations described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, may result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to date that could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, as a U.S. based multinational company we are also subject to tax regulations in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. For example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the U.S. is not taxed in the U.S., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. If these or other tax regulations should change, our financial results could be impacted. 

A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business. 

Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with our retail trade customers. This includes our ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms and principles. Further, retail trade consolidation could create significant cost and margin pressure and lead to more complex work across broader geographic boundaries for both us and key retailers. This can be particularly difficult when major customers are addressing local trade pressures or local law and regulation changes. In addition, our business would be negatively impacted if a key customer were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our products. 

We face risks related to changes in the global economic environment. 

Our business is impacted by global economic conditions, which are increasingly volatile. If the global economy experiences significant disruptions, our business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand for our products related to a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets, temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers and/or liquidity issues resulting from an inability to access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations. We could also be negatively impacted by an economic crisis in individual countries or regions, including sovereign risk related to a deterioration in the credit worthiness of or a default by local governments. Such events could negatively impact our overall liquidity, as well as our ability to collect receipts due from governments, including refunds of value added taxes, and/or create significant credit risks relative to our local customers and depository institutions. 

A failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, in order to conduct business. These systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security, and other processes necessary to manage the business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. 

5

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2. Properties.