Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

The following discussion includes organic sales and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures. See Supplemental Sales Information for a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors. See Financial Condition for a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. Overall demand for our products and services is driven by:

•investments in manufacturing, including upgrades, modifications and expansions of existing facilities or production lines, and the creation of new facilities or production lines;

•our customers’ needs for productivity and cost reduction, sustainable production (cleaner, safer and more energy efficient), quality assurance and overall global competitiveness;

•industry factors that include our customers’ new product introductions, demand for our customers’ products or services, and the regulatory and competitive environments in which our customers operate;

•levels of global industrial production and capacity utilization;

•regional factors that include local political, social, regulatory and economic circumstances;

•the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedule; and

•investments in basic materials production capacity, partly in response to higher commodity pricing.

Long-term Strategy

Our vision of being the most valued global provider of innovative industrial automation and information products, services and solutions is supported by our growth and performance strategy, which seeks to:

•achieve growth rates in excess of the automation market by expanding our served market and strengthening our competitive differentiation;

•diversify our revenue streams by increasing our capabilities in new applications, broadening our solutions and service capabilities, advancing our global presence and serving a wider range of industries;

•grow market share by gaining new customers and by capturing a larger share of existing customers’ spending;

•enhance our market access by building our channel capability and partner network;

•make acquisitions that serve as catalysts to organic growth by adding complementary technology, expanding our served market, increasing our domain expertise or continuing our geographic diversification;

•deploy human and financial resources to strengthen our technology leadership and our intellectual capital business model; and

•continuously improve quality and customer experience and drive annual cost productivity.

By implementing the strategy above, we seek to achieve our long-term financial goals that include revenue growth of 6-8 percent, double-digit EPS growth, return on invested capital in excess of 20 percent, free cash flow of about 100 percent of net income and 60 percent of our revenue outside the U.S, including 30 percent of revenue from emerging markets. 

Our customers face the challenge of remaining globally cost competitive and automation can help them achieve their productivity and sustainability objectives. Our value proposition is to help our customers reduce time to market, lower total cost of ownership, improve asset utilization and manage enterprise risks.

15
Differentiation through Technology and Domain Expertise

We seek a technology leadership position in industrial automation. We believe that our three platforms - integrated architecture, intelligent motor control and solutions and services - provide the foundation for long-term sustainable growth.

Our integrated control and information architecture, with Logix at its core, is an important differentiator. We are the only automation provider that can support discrete, process, batch, safety, motion and motor control on the same hardware platform with the same software programming environment. Our integrated architecture is scalable with standard open communications protocols making it easier for customers to implement more cost effectively.

Intelligent motor control is one of our core competencies and an important aspect of an automation system. These products and solutions enhance the availability, efficiency and safe operation of our customers' critical and most energy-intensive plant assets. Our intelligent motor control offering can be integrated seamlessly with the Logix architecture. 

Domain expertise refers to solutions and services that we provide to support customers through the entire life cycle of their automation investment. The combination of industry-specific domain expertise of our people with our innovative technologies enables us to help our customers solve their manufacturing and business challenges. 

Global Expansion

As the manufacturing world continues to expand, we must be able to meet our customers’ needs in emerging markets. We continue to expand our footprint in emerging markets. We currently have approximately 60 percent of our employees outside the U.S., and 51 percent of our revenues outside of the U.S.

As we expand in markets with considerable growth potential and shift our global footprint, we expect to continue to broaden the portfolio of products, solutions and services that we provide to our customers in these regions. We have made significant investments to globalize our manufacturing, product development and customer facing resources in order to be closer to our customers throughout the world. Growth in the emerging markets of Asia-Pacific, including China and India, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe and Africa is projected to exceed global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rates, due to higher levels of infrastructure investment and the growing middle-class population. We believe that increased demand for consumer products in these markets will lead to manufacturing investment and provide us with additional growth opportunities in the future.

Enhanced Market Access

Over the past decade, our investments in technology and globalization have enabled us to expand our addressed market to approximately $80 billion. Our process initiative has been the most important contributor to this expansion and remains our largest growth opportunity. Logix is the technology foundation that enabled us to become an industry leader for batch process applications and to compete effectively with traditional Distributed Control Systems (DCS) providers for continuous process applications. We complement that with a growing global network of engineers and partners to provide solutions to process customers.

OEMs represent another area of addressed market expansion and a strong growth opportunity. To remain competitive, OEMs need to find the optimal balance of machine cost and performance while reducing their time to market. Our scalable integrated architecture and intelligent motor control offerings, along with design productivity tools and our motion and safety products, can assist OEMs in addressing these business needs.

We have developed a powerful network of channel partners, technology partners and commercial partners that act as amplifiers to our internal capabilities and enable us to serve our customers’ needs around the world.

Broad Range of Industries Served

We apply our knowledge of manufacturing applications to help customers solve their business challenges. We serve customers in a wide range of industries, including consumer products, resource-based and transportation.

Our consumer products customers are engaged in the food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences industries. These customers’ needs include new capacity, incremental capacity from existing facilities, an increasingly flexible manufacturing environment and regulatory compliance. These customers operate in an environment where product innovation and time to market are critical factors.

16
We serve customers in resource-based industries, including oil and gas, mining, aggregates, cement, metals, energy, pulp and paper and water/wastewater. Companies in these industries typically invest when commodity prices are relatively high and global demand for basic materials is increasing.

In the transportation industry, factors such as geographic expansion, investment in new model introductions and more flexible manufacturing technologies influence customers’ automation investment decisions. Our sales in transportation are primarily to automotive and tire manufacturers.

Outsourcing and Sustainability Trends

Demand for our products, solutions and services across all industries benefits from the outsourcing and sustainability needs of our customers. Customers increasingly desire to outsource engineering services to achieve a more flexible cost base. Our manufacturing application knowledge enables us to serve these customers globally.

We help our customers meet their sustainability needs pertaining to energy efficiency, environmental and safety goals. Higher energy prices have historically caused customers across all industries to invest in more energy-efficient manufacturing processes and technologies, such as intelligent motor control and energy efficient solutions and services. In addition, environmental and safety objectives often spur customers to invest to ensure compliance and implement sustainable business practices.

Acquisitions

Our acquisition strategy focuses on products, solutions or services that will be catalytic to the organic growth of our core offerings. In October 2012, we acquired certain assets of the medium voltage drives business of Harbin Jiuzhou Electric Co., Ltd., a leading manufacturer of medium voltage drives, direct current power supplies, switch gear and wind inverters, headquartered in Harbin, China. The acquisition strengthened our presence in the Asia-Pacific motor control market by adding significant capabilities in design, engineering and manufacturing of medium voltage drive products. In March 2012, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of SoftSwitching Technologies Corporation, an industrial power quality detection and protection systems provider in the United States. In May 2011, we purchased a majority stake in the equity of Lektronix Limited and its affiliate, an independent industrial automation repair and service provider primarily in Europe and Asia. In April 2011, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hiprom (Pty) Ltd and its affiliates, a process control and automation systems integrator for the mining and mineral processing industry in South Africa. 

We believe the acquired companies will help us expand our served market and deliver value to our customers.

Continuous Improvement

Productivity and continuous improvement are important components of our culture. We have programs in place that drive ongoing process improvement, functional streamlining, material cost savings and manufacturing productivity. We are in the process of developing and implementing common global processes and an enterprise-wide business system. These are intended to improve profitability that can be used to fund investments in growth and to offset inflation. Our ongoing productivity initiatives target both cost reduction and improved asset utilization. Charges for workforce reductions and facility rationalization may be required in order to effectively execute our productivity programs.

17
U. S. Industrial Economic Trends

In 2012, sales to U.S. customers accounted for 49 percent of our total sales. The various indicators we use to gauge the direction and momentum of our U.S. served markets include:

•The Industrial Production Index (Total Index), published by the Federal Reserve, which measures the real output of manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. The Industrial Production Index is expressed as a percentage of real output in a base year, currently 2007. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between the changes in the Industrial Production Index and the level of automation investment made by our U.S. customers in their manufacturing base.

•The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), which is an indication of the current and near-term state of manufacturing activity in the U.S. According to the ISM, a PMI measure above 50 indicates that the U.S. manufacturing economy is generally expanding while a measure below 50 indicates that it is generally contracting.

•Industrial Equipment Spending, which is an economic statistic compiled by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). This statistic provides insight into spending trends in the broad U.S. industrial economy. This measure over the longer term has proven to demonstrate a reasonable correlation with our domestic growth.

•Capacity Utilization (Total Industry), which is an indication of plant operating activity published by the Federal Reserve. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between Capacity Utilization and levels of U.S. industrial production.

The table below depicts the trends in these indicators from fiscal 2010 to 2012, which point to moderating growth in manufacturing activity during fiscal 2012. These indicators are among the factors that lead us to anticipate a period of slower industrial growth. We continue to believe this is a pause in the recovery and not an inflection point. We expect to see improved market conditions in fiscal 2013 but not until the latter part of the year.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Economic indicators are subject to revisions by the issuing organizations.

18
Non-U.S. Regional Trends

In 2012, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for 51 percent of our total sales. These customers include both indigenous companies and multinational companies with expanding global presence. International demand, particularly in emerging markets, has historically been driven by the strength of the industrial economy in each region, investments in infrastructure and expanding consumer markets.

We use changes in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as one indicator of the growth opportunities in each region where we do business. In 2012, worldwide GDP growth has slowed, and in some regions GDP has declined, indicating a global economic slowdown. In Europe, sovereign debt concerns have put downward pressure on industrial growth. Western Europe continues to operate in a recessionary environment, with potential for an improved outlook in some economies later next year. The emerging markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) experienced strong growth that is expected to continue next year. In Asia, China experienced its slowest GDP growth since early 2009 but the economy shows some signs of improvement. India was flat in 2012 compared to 2011, and there is no indication of any near term improvement. In Latin America, Mexico was the strongest performing country with projected continued growth. Brazil experienced an economic slowdown in 2012 but the outlook is for some improvement in 2013. We still expect that emerging markets will be the fastest growing automation markets over the long term.

19
Summary of Results of Operations

Despite a difficult economic environment in 2012, we delivered sales growth of 4 percent, or 6 percent organically, and ended the year with record sales of $6,259.4 million. All regions experienced organic sales growth year over year, led by Canada with organic sales growth of 20 percent. EMEA had strong organic growth of 6 percent in the face of a recession in Western Europe. The end markets with the strongest sales growth for the year were transportation and oil and gas.

We continued to execute our key initiatives, which contributed to our positive performance:

•Sales related to our process initiative grew approximately 20 percent year over year in 2012.

•Logix organic sales increased 8 percent compared to 2011.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total segment operating margin expanded one full percentage point while we continued to invest for growth.

Our effective tax rate for 2012 was 23.7 percent compared to 19.7 percent in 2011, primarily due to larger discrete tax benefits a year ago. 

20
The following tables reflect our sales and operating results for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See Note 17 in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the definition of segment operating earnings.

(2)Total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as measures of operating performance. We use these measures to monitor and evaluate the profitability of the company. Our measure of total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin may be different from those used by other companies.

(3)See Note 13 in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of items reported as discontinued operations.

21
2012 Compared to 2011 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Sales in fiscal 2012 increased 4 percent compared to 2011. Organic sales increased 6 percent. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point to the growth rate and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points. Organic sales in our solutions and services businesses grew 12 percent year over year, acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points to the increase and currency translation reduced sales by 4 percentage points. Year-end backlog in these businesses was 7 percent lower than a year ago due to an increase in order delays. Product organic sales grew 4 percent year over year and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points. Volume accounted for substantially all of the organic sales growth during the year as pricing contributed less than 1 percentage point to growth.

The table below presents our sales for the year ended September 30, 2012 by geographic region and the percentage change in sales from the year ended September 30, 2011 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We attribute sales to the geographic regions based upon country of destination.

(2)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Organic sales growth in the United States was driven by transportation and oil and gas industries, as consumer industries lagged the region growth rate.

•Strong organic sales growth in Canada reflected continued strength in the resource-based industries.

•EMEA's organic sales growth was driven by strong double digit growth in its emerging markets, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe.

•Asia-Pacific organic sales growth was mixed across the countries in the region with mature markets generally outperforming emerging markets and Australia experiencing significant sales declines.

•Organic sales growth in Latin America was driven by strong growth in transportation and oil and gas industries in Mexico, partially offset by year-over-year declines in Brazil, which is experiencing an economic slowdown.

Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes

Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased 11 percent from $867.6 million in 2011 to $965.9 million in 2012. The increase was predominantly due to increased volume and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by increased spending to support growth. 

22
Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for 2012 was 23.7 percent compared to 19.7 percent in 2011. The 2012 and 2011 effective tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent because our sales outside of the U.S. benefited from lower tax rates.

During 2012, we recognized net discrete tax benefits of $2.1 million primarily related to the favorable resolution of worldwide tax matters. During 2011, we recognized net discrete tax benefits of $25.0 million related to the favorable resolution of worldwide tax matters and the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research credit.

See Note 15 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2012 and 2011 affecting the respective tax rates.

Architecture & Software

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales increased 2 percent in 2012. Organic sales increased 5 percent, and the effects of currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points. Pricing contributed less than 1 percentage point to growth during the year. Year-over-year organic sales growth in all regions other than Canada and EMEA was slightly above the segment average. Logix organic sales increased 8 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points.

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings increased 7 percent. Operating margin expanded 1.1 points to 26.5 percent in 2012 as compared to 2011. The increase was predominantly due to volume increases and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by increased spending to support growth.

Control Products & Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales increased 6 percent. Organic sales increased 8 percent. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point to the growth rate and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points. Pricing contributed less than 1 percentage point to growth during the year. Canada was the strongest performing region for the segment with double digit year-over-year organic sales growth during the year. Year-over-year organic sales growth in Latin America and EMEA was slightly above the segment average, while year-over-year organic sales growth in the United States and Asia-Pacific was less than the segment average growth rate. 

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings increased 16 percent. Operating margin expanded 1.1 points to 11.9 percent in 2012 as compared to 2011. The increase was predominantly due to volume increases and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by increased spending to support growth.

23
2011 Compared to 2010

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Our sales increased $1,143.4 million, or 24 percent, from $4,857.0 million in 2010 to $6,000.4 million in 2011. Sales in our solutions and services businesses increased 24 percent year over year, and year-end backlog in these businesses was 12 percent higher than a year ago. Product sales also grew 24 percent year over year reflecting continued improvement in customers’ spending and increased OEM demand. Volume accounted for substantially all the organic sales growth during the period as pricing contributed less than 1 percentage point to growth during the period.

The table below presents our sales for the year ended September 30, 2011 by geographic region and the percentage change in sales from the year ended September 30, 2010 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We attribute sales to the geographic regions based upon country of destination.

(2)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Organic sales growth in the United States was driven by heavy and transportation industries, as consumer industries lagged the region growth rate.

•Organic sales growth in Canada was driven primarily by heavy industries.

•Europe’s strong organic sales growth was driven primarily by transportation and consumer industries, and strong OEM demand.

•Asia-Pacific organic sales growth was driven by strength in emerging markets, including China and India with 23 and 26 percent growth, respectively.1 

•Latin America growth was driven by mining and oil and gas industries.

_____________________

1 Organic sales growth in China and India exclude 4 and 3 percentage points from the effect of changes in currency, respectively.

24
Income from Continuing Operations 

Income from continuing operations increased 58 percent from $440.4 million in 2010 to $697.1 million in 2011. The increase was predominantly due to increased volume, partially offset by increased spending to support growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $137.9 million from $1,323.3 to $1,461.2, but decreased as a percentage of sales by 2.8 points to 24.4 percent as volume increases outpaced spending increases.

General corporate expenses were net of a $3.8 million gain in 2011 resulting from the sale of an investment.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for 2011 was 19.7 percent compared to 19.1 percent in 2010. The 2011 and 2010 effective tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent because our sales outside of the U.S. benefited from lower tax rates.

During 2011, we recognized net discrete tax benefits of $25.0 million related to the favorable resolution of worldwide tax matters and the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research credit. During 2010, we recognized discrete tax benefits of $27.2 million primarily related to the favorable resolution of tax matters, partially offset by discrete tax expenses of $9.6 million primarily related to the impact of a change in Mexican tax law and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits.

See Note 15 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2011 and 2010 affecting the respective tax rates.

Discontinued Operations

Income from discontinued operations was $0.7 million in 2011 compared to $23.9 million in 2010. Income from discontinued operations in the prior year included a $21.3 million tax benefit resulting from the resolution of a domestic tax matter relating to the January 2007 sale of our Dodge mechanical and Reliance Electric motors and motor repair services businesses.

Architecture & Software

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales increased 23 percent to $2,594.3 million in 2011 compared to $2,115.0 million in 2010. Organic sales increased 20 percent, and the effects of currency translation contributed 3 percentage points to the total increase. Substantially all of the organic sales increase resulted from increased volume due to positive macroeconomic conditions in most regions and industries. Pricing had an immaterial effect on revenue during the period. Year-over-year sales increases in all regions other than the United States were greater than the segment average rate of increase. Logix sales increased 29 percent in 2011 compared to 2010.

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings were $659.1 million in 2011, up 39 percent from $475.4 million in 2010. Operating margin increased 2.9 points to 25.4 percent in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in operating margin was predominantly due to volume increases as a result of higher worldwide levels of industrial production and capital spending by our customers, partially offset by sales mix and increased spending to support growth.

Control Products & Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25
Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales increased 24 percent to $3,406.1 million in 2011 compared to $2,742.0 million in 2010. Organic sales increased 20 percent, and the effects of currency translation and acquisitions contributed 3 percentage points and 1 percentage point, respectively, to the total increase. The segment’s organic sales increase resulted from growth in both products and solutions and services businesses, which grew at rates similar to the segment average. Latin America, Asia-Pacific and EMEA reported year-over-year growth above the segment average, while year-over-year sales increases in the United States and Canada were less than the segment average growth rate. Pricing had an immaterial effect on revenue during the period.

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings were $368.5 million in 2011, up 52 percent from $241.8 million in the same period of 2010. Operating margin increased 2.0 points to 10.8 percent in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase was predominantly due to volume increases, partially offset by sales mix and increased spending to support growth.

26
Introduction of new non-GAAP measures and changes to definition of segment operating earnings for fiscal 2013 

In order to provide transparency into the operational results of our business, beginning in fiscal 2013, we will provide non-GAAP earnings measures (Adjusted Income and Adjusted EPS) that exclude non-operating pension costs and their related tax effects from income from continuing operations. We define non-operating pension costs as defined benefit plan interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of actuarial gains and losses and the impacts of any plan curtailments or settlements. These components of net periodic benefit cost primarily relate to changes in pension assets and liabilities that are a result of market performance; we consider these costs to be unrelated to the operational performance of our business. In addition, we will redefine segment operating earnings to exclude non-operating pension costs. Service cost and amortization of prior service cost will continue to be included in our segment operating earnings as these components of net periodic benefit cost represent the operating cost of providing pension benefits to our employees.

Adjusted Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS)

Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Income are non-GAAP measures that exclude the effects of the non-operating pension costs and their related tax effects. We believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about our operating performance and allow management and investors to compare our operating performance period over period. Our measures of Adjusted Income and Adjusted EPS may be different from measures used by other companies. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for income from continuing operations and diluted EPS.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating and Non-Operating Pension Costs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27
Segment Operating Earnings (non-GAAP)

The table below reflects our operating results for years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 with non-operating pension costs reclassified to their own line item for all periods presented. These costs were previously included in the operating earnings of each segment and in general corporate-net. Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 non-operating pension costs excluded from Architecture & Software segment operating earnings were $11.6 million, $11.3 million and $3.4 million, respectively. Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 non-operating pension costs excluded from Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings were $20.9 million, $9.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 non-operating pension costs excluded from general corporate-net were $2.7 million, $2.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as measures of operating performance. We use these measures to monitor and evaluate the profitability of our operating segments. Our measures of total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin may be different from measures used by other companies.

28
Financial Condition

The following is a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our definition of free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain the operations of our businesses and execute our strategy. Cash provided by continuing operating activities adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings and thus does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Our definition of free cash flow excludes the operating cash flows and capital expenditures related to our discontinued operations. Operating, investing and financing cash flows of our discontinued operations are presented separately in our statement of cash flows. Our accounting for share-based compensation requires us to report the related excess income tax benefit as a financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow. We have added this benefit back to our calculation of free cash flow in order to generally classify cash flows arising from income taxes as operating cash flows. In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow as one measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.

Free cash flow was a source of $597.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2012 compared to a source of $561.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2011. Free cash flow for 2012 and 2011 include discretionary pre-tax contributions to our U.S. qualified pension trust of $300 million and $150 million, respectively. The increase in free cash flow is primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and a smaller increase in working capital, partially offset by a higher discretionary pre-tax contribution to our U.S. qualified pension trust in 2012.

We purchased $487.5 million of short-term investments in the year ended September 30, 2012, of which $137.5 million matured during the same period.

We repurchased approximately 3.7 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program in 2012. The total cost of these shares was $265.3 million, of which $7.6 million was recorded in accounts payable at September 30, 2012, related to 110,000 shares that did not settle until October 2012. In 2011, we repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock. The total cost of these shares was $299.2 million, of which $1.7 million was recorded in accounts payable at September 30, 2011, related to 30,000 shares that did not settle until October 2011. Our decision to repurchase stock in 2013 will depend on business conditions, free cash flow generation, other cash requirements and stock price. At September 30, 2012 we had approximately $936.7 million remaining for stock repurchases under our existing board authorization. See Part II, Item 5, Market for the Company’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for additional information regarding share repurchases.

We expect future uses of cash to include working capital requirements, capital expenditures, additional contributions to our retirement plans, acquisitions of businesses, dividends to shareowners, repurchases of common stock and repayments of debt. We expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be about $150 million. We expect to fund future uses of cash with a combination of existing cash balances and short-term investments, cash generated by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or a new issuance of debt or other securities.

29
Given our extensive international operations, a significant amount of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (funds) are held in non-U.S. subsidiaries where our undistributed earnings are permanently reinvested. Generally, these funds would be subject to U.S. tax if repatriated. The percentage of such non-U.S. funds can vary from quarter to quarter with a range of approximately 70 percent to 90 percent over the past eight quarters. As of September 30, 2012, approximately 90 percent of our funds were held in such non-U.S. subsidiaries. We have not encountered and do not expect to encounter any difficulty meeting the liquidity requirements of our domestic and international operations.

In addition to cash generated by operating activities, we have access to existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and unsecured credit facilities with various banks. Commercial paper is our principal source of short-term financing. At September 30, 2012, commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $157.0 million, with a weighted average interest rate of 0.27 percent. We had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding during the year ended September 30, 2011. Our debt-to-total-capital ratio was 36.4 percent at September 30, 2012 and 34.1 percent at September 30, 2011.

At September 30, 2012 and 2011, our total current borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility, which expires in March 2015, was $750.0 million. We have not borrowed against this credit facility at September 30, 2012 or 2011. Borrowings under this credit facility bear interest based on short-term money market rates in effect during the period the borrowings are outstanding. The terms of this credit facility contain covenants under which we would be in default if our debt-to-total-capital ratio was to exceed 60 percent. We were in compliance with all covenants under this credit facility at September 30, 2012 and 2011. Separate short-term unsecured credit facilities of approximately $120.6 million at September 30, 2012 were available to non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Among other uses, we can draw on our credit facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. This access to funds to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the short-term credit ratings set forth in the table below. Under our current policy with respect to these ratings, we expect to limit our other borrowings under our credit facility, if any, to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facility so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our then outstanding commercial paper as it matures.

The following is a summary of our credit ratings as of September 30, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. We have not experienced any difficulty in accessing the commercial paper market to date. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and our unsecured committed credit facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our unsecured committed credit facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.

We regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.

We enter into contracts to offset changes in the amount of future cash flows associated with certain third-party sales and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies forecasted to occur within the next two years and to offset transaction gains or losses associated with some of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies resulting from intercompany loans and other transactions with third parties denominated in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We diversify our foreign currency forward exchange contracts among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.

Cash dividends to shareowners were $247.4 million in 2012 ($1.745 per common share), $211.0 million in 2011 ($1.475 per common share) and $173.6 million in 2010 ($1.22 per common share). Our current quarterly dividend rate is $0.47 per common share ($1.88 per common share annually), which is determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.

30
A summary of our projected contractual cash obligations at September 30, 2012 are (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The amounts for long-term debt assume that the respective debt instruments will be outstanding until their scheduled maturity dates. The amounts include interest, but exclude the unamortized discount of $45.0 million. See Note 6 in the Financial Statements for more information regarding our long-term debt.

(b)Our postretirement plans are unfunded and are subject to change. Amounts reported are estimates of future benefit payments, to the extent estimable.

(c)Amounts reported for pension funding contributions reflect current estimates of known commitments. Contributions to our pension plans beyond 2013 will depend on future investment performance of our pension plan assets, changes in discount rate assumptions and governmental regulations in effect at the time. Amounts subsequent to 2013 are excluded from the summary above, as these amounts cannot be estimated with certainty. The minimum contribution for our U.S. pension plan as required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) is currently zero. We may make additional contributions to this plan at the discretion of management.

(d)This item includes long-term obligations under agreements with various service providers, contractual commitments for capital expenditures and contractually required cash payments for acquisitions. Amounts payable in 2013 include $84.4 million for acquisition of the medium voltage drives business of Harbin Jiuzhou Electric Co., Ltd in October 2012. See Note 19 in the Financial Statements for more information regarding the acquisition.

(e)Other long-term liabilities include environmental liabilities net of related receivables, asset retirement obligations and indemnifications. Amounts subsequent to 2013 are excluded from the summary above, as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities will be paid.

(f)Amount for unrecognized tax benefits includes accrued interest and penalties. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or paid.

Supplemental Sales Information

We translate sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, changes in currency rates affect our reported sales. Sales by businesses we acquired also affect our reported sales. We believe that organic sales, defined as sales excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, provides useful information to investors because it reflects regional and operating segment performance from the activities of our businesses without the effect of changes in currency rates or acquisitions. We use organic sales as one measure to monitor and evaluate our regional and operating segment performance. We determine the effect of changes in currency exchange rates by translating the respective period’s sales using the currency exchange rates that were in effect during the prior year. We determine the effect of acquisitions by excluding sales in the current period for which there are no sales in the comparable prior period. Organic sales growth is calculated by comparing organic sales to reported sales in the prior year. We attribute sales to the geographic regions based on the country of destination.

31
The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by operating segment to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and revenues and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies could have the most significant effect on our reported results or require subjective or complex judgments by management.

Retirement Benefits — Pension

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially determined and are influenced by assumptions used to estimate these amounts, including the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, the assumed annual compensation increase rate, the retirement rate, the mortality rate and the employee turnover rate. Changes in any of the assumptions and the amortization of differences between the assumptions and actual experience will affect the amount of pension expense in future periods.

Our global pension expense in 2012 was $104.7 million compared to $91.4 million in 2011. Approximately 72 percent of our 2012 global pension expense relates to our U.S. pension plan. The actuarial assumptions used to determine our 2012 U.S. pension expense included the following: discount rate of 5.20 percent (compared to 5.60 percent for 2011); expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.00 percent (compared to 8.00 percent for 2011); and an assumed long-term compensation increase rate of 4.00 percent (compared to 4.00 percent for 2011).

In 2012, 2011 and 2010, we were not required to make contributions to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements in our U.S. pension plans. However, we made voluntary contributions of $300.0 million, $150.0 million, and $150.0 million to our U.S pension plans in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

We estimate our pension expense will be approximately $168.8 million in 2013, an increase of approximately $64.1 million from 2012, of which $20.6 million and $43.5 million relate to operating and non-operating pension costs, respectively. Further information on operating and non-operating pension costs is provided in "Introduction of new non-GAAP measures and changes to definition of segment operating earnings for fiscal 2013" section in Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis".

 For 2013, our U.S. discount rate will decrease to 4.15 percent. The discount rate was set as of our September 30 measurement date and was determined by modeling a portfolio of bonds that match the expected cash flow of our benefit plans. We have assumed a U.S. long-term compensation increase rate of 4.00 percent in 2013. We established this rate by analyzing all elements of compensation that are pension-eligible earnings. Our expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets will remain at 8.00 percent. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, we considered actual returns on plan assets over the long term, adjusted for forward-looking considerations, such as inflation, interest rates, equity performance and the active management of the plans’ invested assets. We also considered our current and expected mix of plan assets in setting this assumption. The target allocations and ranges of expected return for our major categories of U.S. plan assets are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The financial markets produced strong results in 2012. The plan’s Debt Securities return exceeded the expected return range in 2012, as lower market interest rates resulted in higher bond values. The plan’s Equity Securities return exceeded the expected return range in 2012, largely due to higher U.S. equity returns. While the financial markets continue to experience volatility, we have not changed our expectation for long-term returns for the asset categories in which our plan assets are invested. Actual return for our portfolio of U.S. plan assets was approximately 6.60 percent annualized for the 15 years ended September 30, 2012, and was approximately 9.00 percent annualized for the 20 years ended September 30, 2012.

The changes in our discount rate and return on plan assets have an inverse relationship with our net periodic benefit cost. The change in our discount rate also has an inverse relationship with our projected benefit obligation. The change in our compensation increase rate has a direct relationship with our net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation. 

33
The following chart illustrates the estimated change in benefit obligation and annual net periodic pension cost assuming a change of 25 basis points in the key assumptions for our U.S. pension plans (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

More information regarding pension benefits is contained in Note 12 in the Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

For approximately 80 percent of our consolidated sales, we record sales when all of the following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists; pricing is fixed or determinable; collection is reasonably assured; and product has been delivered and acceptance has occurred, as may be required according to contract terms, or services have been rendered. Within this category, we will at times enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple products and/or the performance of services, such as installation and commissioning. The timing of delivery, though varied based upon the nature of the undelivered component, is generally short-term in nature. For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each deliverable based on that element's relative selling price, provided the delivered element has value to customers on a standalone basis and, if the arrangement includes a general right of return, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is probable and substantially in our control. Relative selling price is obtained from sources such as vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE), which is based on the separate selling price for that or a similar item, or from third-party evidence such as how competitors have priced similar items. If such evidence is not available, we use our best estimate of the selling price, which includes various internal factors such as our pricing strategy and market factors.

We recognize substantially all of the remainder of our sales as construction-type contracts using either the percentage-of-completion or completed contract methods of accounting. We record sales relating to these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method when we determine that progress toward completion is reasonably and reliably estimable; we use the completed contract method for all others. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we recognize sales and gross profit as work is performed using the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at completion. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we adjust sales and gross profit for revisions of estimated total contract costs or revenue in the period the change is identified. We record estimated losses on contracts when they are identified.

We use contracts and customer purchase orders to determine the existence of an agreement of sale. We use shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, to verify delivery. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectibility based on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit evaluations and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.

Returns, Rebates and Incentives

Our primary incentive program provides distributors with cash rebates or account credits based on agreed amounts that vary depending on the customer to whom our distributor ultimately sells the product. We also offer various other incentive programs that provide distributors and direct sale customers with cash rebates, account credits or additional products and services based on meeting specified program criteria. Certain distributors are offered a right to return product, subject to contractual limitations.

We record accruals for customer returns, rebates and incentives at the time of revenue recognition based primarily on historical experience. Adjustments to the accrual may be required if actual returns, rebates and incentives differ from historical experience or if there are changes to other assumptions used to estimate the accrual. A critical assumption used in estimating the accrual for our primary distributor rebate program is the time period from when revenue is recognized to when the rebate is processed. If the time period were to change by 10 percent, the effect would be an adjustment to the accrual of approximately $10.7 million.

34
Returns, rebates and incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales if distributed in cash or customer account credits. Rebates and incentives are recognized in cost of sales for additional products and services to be provided. Accruals are reported as a current liability in our balance sheet or, where a right of offset exists, as a reduction of accounts receivable. The accrual for customer returns, rebates and incentives was $176.6 million at September 30, 2012 and $162.0 million at September 30, 2011, of which $7.9 million at September 30, 2012 and $8.0 million at September 30, 2011 was included as an offset to accounts receivable.

Litigation, Claims and Contingencies

We record liabilities for litigation, claims and contingencies when an obligation is probable and when we have a basis to reasonably estimate the value of an obligation. We also record liabilities for environmental matters based on estimates for known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites we currently own or operate or formerly owned or operated and third-party sites where we were determined to be a potentially responsible party. At third-party environmental sites where more than one potentially responsible party has been identified, we record a liability for our estimated allocable share of costs related to our involvement with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites where we are the only responsible party, we record a liability for the total estimated costs of remediation. We do not discount future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations to their present value. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change, additional contamination is identified, or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, the estimate of our environmental liabilities may change.

Our accrual for environmental matters was $45.2 million, net of related receivables of $32.1 million, at September 30, 2012 and $41.1 million, net of related receivables of $32.5 million, at September 30, 2011. Our recorded liability for environmental matters relates almost entirely to businesses formerly owned by us (legacy businesses) for which we retained the responsibility to remediate. The nature of our current business is such that the likelihood of new environmental exposures that could result in a significant charge to earnings is low. As a result of remediation efforts at legacy sites and limited new environmental matters, we expect that gradually, over a long period of time, our environmental obligations will decline. However, changes in remediation procedures at existing legacy sites or discovery of contamination at additional sites could result in increases to our environmental obligations.

Our principal self-insurance programs include product liability where we are self-insured up to a specified dollar amount. Claims exceeding this amount up to specified limits are covered by policies issued by commercial insurers. We estimate the reserve for product liability claims using our claims experience for the periods being valued. Adjustments to the product liability reserves may be required to reflect emerging claims experience and other factors such as inflationary trends or the outcome of claims. The reserve for product liability claims was $22.3 million at September 30, 2012 and $20.1 million at September 30, 2011.

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business. As described in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products many years ago. See Part I, Item 3 for further discussion.

We accrue for costs related to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that results from the acquisition, construction, development or the normal operation of the long-lived asset. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is not conditional even though the timing or method may be conditional. Identified conditional asset retirement obligations include asbestos abatement and remediation of soil contamination beneath current and previously divested facilities. We estimate conditional asset retirement obligations using site-specific knowledge and historical industry expertise. A significant change in the costs or timing could have a significant effect on our estimates. We recorded these liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which totaled $3.4 million in other current liabilities and $22.4 million in other liabilities at September 30, 2012 and $4.7 million in other current liabilities and $23.9 million in other liabilities at September 30, 2011.

35
In conjunction with the sale of our Dodge mechanical and Reliance Electric motors and motor repair services businesses, we agreed to indemnify Baldor Electric Company for costs and damages related to certain legacy legal, environmental and asbestos matters of these businesses arising before January 31, 2007, for which the maximum exposure is capped at the amount received for the sale. We estimate the potential future payments we could incur under these indemnifications may approximate $13.5 million, of which $1.6 million has been accrued in other current liabilities at September 30, 2012 and 2011, and $8.8 million and $10.1 million has been accrued in other liabilities at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A significant change in the costs or timing could have a significant effect on our estimates.

More information regarding litigation, claims and contingencies is contained in Note 16 in the Financial Statements.

Income Taxes

We operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions and are subject to regular examinations by U.S. Federal, state and non-U.S. jurisdictions. Additionally, we have retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds in connection with various divestitures of businesses in prior years. Our income tax positions are based on research and interpretations of the income tax laws and rulings in each of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Due to the subjectivity of interpretations of laws and rulings in each jurisdiction, the differences and interplay in tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the inherent uncertainty in estimating the final resolution of complex tax audit matters, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments.

While we have support for the positions we take on our tax returns, taxing authorities may assert interpretations of laws and facts and may challenge cross jurisdictional transactions. Cross jurisdictional transactions between our subsidiaries involving the transfer price for products, services, and/or intellectual property as well as various U.S. state tax matters comprise our more significant income tax exposures. The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, was recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the amount of $70.3 million at September 30, 2012 and $75.1 million at September 30, 2011. The amount of net unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our effective tax rate for continuing operations if recognized was $23.3 million at September 30, 2012 and $30.2 million at September 30, 2011. We recognize interest and penalties related to income taxes in income tax expense. Total accrued interest and penalties were $20.1 million at September 30, 2012 and $16.9 million at September 30, 2011. We believe it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by up to $1.2 million during the next 12 months as a result of the resolution of worldwide tax matters and the lapses of statutes of limitations.

We recorded a valuation allowance for a portion of our deferred tax assets related to net operating loss, tax credit, and capital loss carryforwards (Carryforwards) and certain temporary differences in the amount of $31.8 million at September 30, 2012 and $32.8 million at September 30, 2011 based on the projected profitability of the entity in the respective tax jurisdiction. The valuation allowance is based on an evaluation of the uncertainty that the Carryforwards and certain temporary differences will be realized. Our income would increase if we determine we will be able to use more Carryforwards or certain temporary differences than currently expected.

Our consolidated financial statements provide for tax liability on undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries that will be repatriated to the U.S. As of September 30, 2012, we have not provided U.S. deferred taxes for $2,081.0 million of such earnings, since these earnings have been, and under current plans will continue to be, permanently reinvested outside the U.S. 

At the end of each interim reporting period, we estimate a base effective tax rate that we expect for the full fiscal year based on our most recent forecast of pretax income, permanent book and tax differences and global tax planning strategies. We use this base rate to provide for income taxes on a year-to-date basis, excluding the effect of significant unusual or extraordinary items and items that are reported net of their related tax effects. We record the tax effect of significant unusual or extraordinary items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.

More information regarding income taxes is contained in Note 15 in the Financial Statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 in the Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

36
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk