PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) is an insurance holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1979. Its primary subsidiaries are American Income Life Insurance Company (American Income), Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Liberty), Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company (Globe), United American Insurance Company (United American), and United Investors Life Insurance Company (United Investors).  

Torchmark’s website is: www.torchmarkcorp.com. Torchmark makes available free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

The following table presents Torchmark’s business by primary marketing distribution method.  

 Primary

Distribution Method   Company   Products and Target Markets   Distribution 

 Direct Response    

Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company 

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma    Individual life and supplemental health insurance including juvenile and senior life coverage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D marketed to middle-income Americans.   Direct response, mail, television, magazine; nationwide. 

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency    

Liberty National Life Insurance Company 

Birmingham, Alabama   Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to middle-income families.   3,437 producing agents; 161 branch offices primarily in the Southeastern U.S. 

 American Income Exclusive Agency    

American Income Life Insurance Company 

Waco, Texas   Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to union and credit union members.   3,085 producing agents in the U.S., Canada, and New Zealand. 

 United American Independent Agency and Branch Office Agency    

United American

Insurance Company 

McKinney, Texas   Limited-benefit supplemental health coverage to people under age 65, Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D coverage to Medicare beneficiaries and, to a lesser extent, life insurance.   2,838 independent producing agents in the U.S. and Canada; 1,583 exclusive producing agents in 85 branch offices.  

Additional information concerning industry segments may be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in Note 13—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Insurance  

Life Insurance  

Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries write a variety of nonparticipating ordinary life insurance products. These include traditional and interest sensitive whole-life insurance, term life insurance, and other life insurance. The following table presents selected information about Torchmark’s life products.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The distribution methods for life insurance products include sales by direct response, exclusive agents and independent agents. These methods are described in more depth in the Distribution Method chart earlier in this report. The following table presents life annualized premium in force by distribution method.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Health Insurance  

Torchmark offers supplemental limited-benefit health insurance products that include hospital/surgical plans, cancer, and accident plans sold to individuals under age 65. These policies are designed to supplement health coverage that applicants already own or to provide affordable, limited-benefit coverage to individuals without access to more comprehensive coverage. Medicare Supplements are also offered to enrollees in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. All Medicare Supplement plans are standardized by federal regulation and are designed to pay deductibles and co-payments not paid by Medicare. We also began offering Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance in 2006.  

Health plans are offered through the Company’s exclusive and independent agents and direct response, with the United American agencies being the leading writers in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, selling predominantly hospital/surgical plans. As shown in the charts below, net sales of limited-benefit plans exceeded net sales of Medicare Supplements in all years of the three-year-period ended December 31, 2008. The net sales data illustrates the change in product mix in recent periods favoring limited-benefit plans. However, Medicare Supplement premium in force exceeded that of limited-benefit plans in all periods except 2007, reflecting the higher persistency in Medicare Supplement business.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table presents health insurance net sales information for the three years ended December 31, 2008 by product category. Net sales for Medicare Part D represent only new first-time enrollees.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 *   Restated  

The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium information for the three years ended December 31, 2008 by product category.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The number of health policies in force (excluding Medicare Part D) was 1.54 million, 1.56 million, and 1.60 million at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Medicare Part D enrollees at December 31, 2007 were approximately 158 thousand to begin the 2008 plan year, and are not expected to increase for the 2009 plan year. There were 189 thousand enrollees at the beginning of the 2007 plan year.  

The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium in force for the three years ended December 31, 2008 by marketing (distribution) method.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Annuities  

Annuity products offered include single-premium deferred annuities, flexible-premium deferred annuities, and prior to 2008 variable annuities. In recent years Torchmark has deemphasized the marketing of annuity products. Annuities in each of the three years ending December 31, 2008 comprised less than 1% of premium.  

Pricing  

Premium rates for life and health insurance products are established using assumptions as to future mortality, morbidity, persistency, and expenses, all of which are generally based on Company experience and on projected investment earnings. Revenues for individual life and health insurance products are primarily derived from premium income, and, to a lesser extent, through policy charges to the policyholder account values on certain individual life products. Profitability is affected to the extent actual experience deviates from the assumptions made in pricing and to the extent investment income varies from that which is required for policy reserves.  

Collections for annuity products and certain life products are not recognized as revenues but are added to policyholder account values. Revenues from these products are derived from charges to the account balances for insurance risk and administrative costs. Profits are earned to the extent these revenues exceed actual costs. Profits are also earned from investment income on the deposits invested in excess of the amounts credited to policyholder accounts.  

Underwriting  

The underwriting standards of each Torchmark insurance subsidiary are established by management. Each subsidiary uses information from the application and, in some cases, telephone interviews with applicants, inspection reports, doctors’ statements and/or medical examinations to determine whether a policy should be issued in accordance with the application, with a different rating, with a rider, with reduced coverage or rejected.  

Reserves  

The life insurance policy reserves reflected in Torchmark’s financial statements as future policy benefits are calculated based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These reserves, with premiums to be received in the future and the interest thereon compounded annually at assumed rates, must be sufficient to cover policy and contract obligations as they mature. Generally, the mortality and persistency assumptions used in the calculations of reserves are based on Company experience. Similar reserves are held on most of the health policies written by Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries, since these policies generally are issued on a guaranteed-renewable basis. A list of the assumptions used in the calculation of Torchmark’s reserves are reported in the financial statements (See Note 5—Future Policy Benefit Reserves in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Reserves for annuity products and certain life products consist of the policyholders’ account values and are increased by policyholder deposits and interest credited and are decreased by policy charges and benefit payments.  

Investments  

The nature, quality, and percentage mix of insurance company investments are regulated by state laws. The investments of Torchmark insurance subsidiaries consist predominantly of high-quality, investment-grade securities. Fixed maturities represented 93% of total investments at fair value at December 31, 2008. (See Note 3—Investments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis.)  

Competition  

Torchmark competes with other insurance carriers through policyholder service, price, product design, and sales efforts. While there are insurance companies competing with Torchmark, no individual company dominates any of Torchmark’s life or health markets.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Torchmark’s health insurance products compete with, in addition to the products of other health insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, and other health care-related institutions which provide medical benefits based on contractual agreements.  

Management believes Torchmark companies operate at lower policy acquisition and administrative expense levels than peer companies. This allows Torchmark to have competitive rates while maintaining higher underwriting margins.  

Regulation  

Insurance. Insurance companies are subject to regulation and supervision in the states in which they do business. The laws of the various states establish agencies with broad administrative and supervisory powers which include, among other things, granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, approving policy forms, approving certain premium rates, setting minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements, determining the form and content of required financial statements, and prescribing the type and amount of investments permitted. They are also required to file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the rules of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), insurance companies are examined periodically by one or more of the supervisory agencies.  

Risk Based Capital. The NAIC requires a risk based capital formula be applied to all life and health insurers. The risk based capital formula is a threshold formula rather than a target capital formula. It is designed only to identify companies that require regulatory attention and is not to be used to rate or rank companies that are adequately capitalized. All Torchmark insurance subsidiaries are more than adequately capitalized under the risk based capital formula.  

Guaranty Assessments. State guaranty laws provide for assessments from insurance companies into a fund which is used, in the event of failure or insolvency of an insurance company, to fulfill the obligations of that company to its policyholders. The amount which a company is assessed is determined according to the extent of these unsatisfied obligations in each state. Assessments are recoverable to a great extent as offsets against state premium taxes.  

Holding Company. States have enacted legislation requiring registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies domiciled within their respective jurisdictions that control or are controlled by other corporations so as to constitute a holding company system. At December 31, 2008, Torchmark and its subsidiaries have registered as a holding company system pursuant to such legislation in Indiana, Missouri, Nebraska, and New York.  

Insurance holding company system statutes and regulations impose various limitations on investments in subsidiaries, and may require prior regulatory approval for material transactions between insurers and affiliates and for the payment of certain dividends and other distributions.  

Personnel  

At the end of 2008, Torchmark had 2,195 employees and 1,410 licensed employees under sales contracts.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Item 1A. Risk Factors